--- PAGE 1 ---

1
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
Dash Pages » 7 
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 11
Chassis » 14
 Aero Balance Calc. » 12
Setup Tips » 21
Tires & Aero » 11 
 Front / Brakes » 13
 In-Car Adjsutments » 14
 Rear Corners » 16
 Rear » 17
 Gears / Differential » 18
 Dampers » 19
 Front Corners » 15 
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the ACURA NSX GT3 EVO! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | TECH SPECS
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
SHORT-LONG ARM DOUBLE WISHBONE 
FRONT, MULTILINK REAR, WITH 
OUTBOARD COILOVER SPRINGS
TWIN-TURBOCHARGED DOHC V6
LENGTH
4800mm
189in
WIDTH
2045mm
80.5in
DISPLACEMENT
3.5 Liters
213.6CID
TORQUE
457lb-ft
620Nm
RPM LIMIT
7500RPM
 
POWER
520bhp
388kW
WHEELBASE
2642mm
104in
DRY WEIGHT
1320kg
2910lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1485kg
3274lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. 
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is 
not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as 
your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and 
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper 
racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a 
number of laps.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup <baseline.sto>. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs. 
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | INTRODUCTION
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The ACURA NSX GT3 EVO features a digital display with two display pages.
RACE
Layout
Tachometer The bar across the top of the display shows the current engine RPM
Tire Pressures Live Tire Pressures are shown in the upper left of the display, one for each tire
Remain Volume of fuel in the fuel tank, in Liters or Gallons
Lap Volume of fuel used on the previous lap, in Liters or Gallons
Gear Indicator Currently selected transmission gear
Brake Temp Indicators
Four squares around the Gear Indicator will display the temperature for the four brake rotors. If the brakes are 
too cold they will appear in blue, the squares will be black if the brakes are in the optimum temperature range, 
and if the brakes are overheated they will be red.
TCS Traction Control System setting, changes to red when the system is OFF
ABS Anti-Lock Brake System setting, changes to red when the system is OFF
Speed Vehicle speed in kph or mph
Predicted Lap Time Estimated time for the current lap
Lap Gain / Loss Current lap time delta relative to the session-best lap
TC Cut Graphical display of how much the traction control system is cutting the ignition to control wheelspin.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
RACE 2
The RACE2 page adds a Corner Speed indicator to the bottom right, 
which displays vehicle speed whenever lateral forces exceed 1g.
PIT SPEED LIMITER
When the Pit Limiter is active, the display will change to a layout that displays only information relevant to pit road and the pit stop.
Layout
Pit Speed Lights
When the Pit Limiter is active the shift lights will all illuminate in the same color. If the vehicle is traveling 
below the pit road speed limit, all LEDs will be green. If the speed is over the pit road speed limit, all lights 
will be magenta.
Pit Time Bar Graphical bar that progresses from left to right when the pit stop begins
Gear Currently selected transmission gear
Pit Time
Displays how much time passed during the pit stop. Once the stop is completed this time will stay on the 
display until the limiter is deactivated
Speed Vehicle speed in kph or mph
Brake Bias Current Brake Bias setting

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
SRX | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
A row of 10 shift LEDs sit above the digital display, illuminating from 
left to right as engine RPM increases. Shifting is recommended when 
all 10 LEDs have changed to red.
It’s important to note that the RPM bar will change to red around the 
same time the LEDs switch to red, however the RPM bar is not a shift 
indicator and only turns red when approaching the rev limiter.
WHEEL LOCK INDICATORS
A set of LEDs on either side of the display illuminate to identify wheel 
lockups under braking or during a spin. Magenta LEDs represent the 
front wheels, blue LEDs represent the rear wheels. For minor lockups 
only the upper LED for the fronts and lower LED for the rear will 
illuminate, while major lockups will be indicated with both LEDs.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for rain and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE SETTINGS
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height. 
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Rear RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height. 
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car as 
well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
The Aero Balance Calc is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
AERO BALANCE CALC.
higher settings. Increasing the rear wing setting results in more total 
cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but will 
also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing setting 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.
The Wing Setting value in the Aero Calculator section is tied directly 
to the Wing Setting in the Chassis page’s Rear section. Changing one 
will automatically change the other.
 
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing position here WILL be applied to the car. This 
calculator is a reference tool ONLY.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT & BRAKES
ARB BLADES 
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) Blades (or arms) can be adjusted to tune 
the suspension roll stiffness. This option changes the orientation of 
the ARB blades and are given numerical values for simplicity, with 1 
being the softest option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value 
is increased to the maximum setting of 8. Stiffer blade settings will 
increase front roll stiffness and induce understeer while softer blade 
settings will reduce front roll stiffness and reduce understeer.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in 
will reduce the slip and increase straight-line stability.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but allow the least modulation.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The Traction Control determines how aggressively the ECU cuts 
engine torque in reaction to rear wheel slip. Twelve positions are 
available: Settings 2-12 range from least intervention/sensitivity 
(Position 2) to the highest intervention/sensitivity (position 12)
while position 1 disables the traction control completely. Like the 
ABS settings, options 2-7 are recommended for dry conditions and 
8-12 are for wet conditions. More intervention will result in less 
wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance 
if the traction control is cutting engine torque too aggressively and 
stunting corner exit acceleration.
IN-CAR ADJUSTMENTS
ANTI-LOCK BRAKE SETTING
The Anti-Lock Brake Setting will alter how much the braking system 
tries to prevent lockups in heavy braking or low-grip conditions. 
Twelve positions are available: Position 1 is Off. Position 2 has 
the least intervention/support, Position 12 has the most support. 
Positions 2-7 are recommended for use in dry conditions while 8-12 
are best for wet conditions. More intervention reduces the possibility 
of and the duration of lockups during braking but can result in longer 
braking distances if the system is set too high for the amount of 
available grip.
DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the active dash page when the car is started. Two options 
are available as previously described in the dash configuration 
section of this manual.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in 
more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the ride heights at each corner of the car.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
ride height adjustments at each corner
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the front axle 
centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing front ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. 
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control. However overly 
stiff springs will result in increased tire load variation which will 
manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of 
stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch 
control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when 
altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to 
rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the 
same roll stiffness as previously. When changing springs on this 
car, the spring perch is automatically adjusted to maintain the 
bump rubber gap and return the car to the ride height it had before 
the change.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
ride height adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the rear axle 
centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight 
transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce 
overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the 
rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both 
mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations and static 
rear ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen 
rear corner springs for optimal performance. Generally the Acura 
NSX will perform best with a relatively low-rake setup. See the 
section on Aerodynamic Targets for more information on setting 
optimum ride heights.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension. Engaging the bump rubbers on the rear can 
keep the chassis off the track in high-load situations to keep the car 
from bottoming out on the track, like Daytona’s oval banking, but due 
to the increased stiffness it can make the car more difficult to control 
when cornering or during throttle application.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. When changing springs 
on this car, the spring perch is automatically adjusted to maintain 
the bump rubber gap and return the car to the ride height it had 
before the change.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that 
the values are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at 
the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels are 
twice as powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the 
car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised 
to keep the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or 
asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily asymmetric tracks 
such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in performance from 
running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other 
setup parameters.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the car when loaded into the world.
ARB BLADES 
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) Blades (or arms) can be adjusted to fine tune 
the suspension roll stiffness. This option changes the orientation of 
the ARB blades and is given a numerical value for simplicity, with 1 
being the softest option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value 
is increased to the maximum setting of 5. Stiffer blade settings will 
increase rear roll stiffness and induce oversteer while softer blade 
settings will reduce rear roll stiffness and reduce oversteer.
REAR WING ANGLE 
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
 is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the forward gear ratios in the transmission. 
Three choices are available: Daytona, FIA and IMSA Short. Daytona 
has the highest possible top speed, it should only be needed at 
Daytona. The FIA gear stack is suitable for most medium and 
low downforce tracks. The IMSA Short gear stack offers the best 
acceleration but the lowest potential top speed. It is suited to most 
high-downforce tracks.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treat it as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces.
DIFFERENTIAL PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces.
In this case 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) 
while 16 is maximum damping (most resistance to compression). 
Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a 
faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car during transient 
movements such as braking and direction change with increased 
damping usually providing an increase in turn-in response but a 
reduction in overall grip in the context of front dampers.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high
speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. Setting 16 is maximum 
damping while 1 is minimum damping.
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When 
tuning for handling, higher front low speed rebound can increase 
on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce nose lift) while 
lower values will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce 
understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound 
can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off 
of the track surface instead of staying in contact. Setting 16 is 
maximum damping (most resistant to extension) while 1 is minimum 
damping (least resistance to extension).
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over
bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly
the shock will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to 
extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on 
handling in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce 
similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. Setting 16 is maximum damping while
1 is minimum damping.
DAMPERS
FRONT DAMPERS
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces.
In this case 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) 
while 16 is maximum damping (most resistance to compression). 
Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a 
faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car during transient 
movements such as braking and direction change with increased 
damping usually increasing the cars tendency to understeer on 
throttle application.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. Setting 16 is maximum 
damping while 1 is minimum damping.
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster.
As at the front, high rebound stiffness will result in improved 
platform control for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis 
response but it is important to avoid situations where the shock is 
too slow in rebounding as this can result in the tire losing complete 
contact with the track surface. Provided this is avoided,, an increase 
in rebound stiffness can help to ‘slow down’ the change in pitch of 
the car as the brakes are applied, increasing braking stability and 
off-throttle mechanical understeer. Setting 16 is maximum damping 
(most resistant to extension) while 1 is minimum damping
(least resistance to extension).
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the
shock will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to
extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on 
handling in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can
produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and 
uncontrolled oscillations if set improperly. Setting 16 is maximum 
damping while 1 is minimum damping.
REAR DAMPERS
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require 
adjustment. This is performed by using the ride height adjustments 
at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will increase the ride 
height while left clicks (negative) will reduce the ride height.
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups.
Baseline is a stable, maximum downforce setup that is intended as 
an introduction to the car. As such, this setup should always pass 
tech inspection at every fuel load and track (Except Nürburgring 
Nordschleife configurations where ‘nuburgring_sprint/endurance’ 
should be used) but will not provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended to 
start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating the 
other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track may 
benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum 
speed reached.
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Road Atlanta High/Medium
Daytona International Speedway Low Sebring International Raceway High
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Sonoma Raceway High
Hungaroring High Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Lime Rock Park High WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition.
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series and 
is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations.
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +11
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 40.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 55.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +2 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1
Front Ride Height: +1 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: -2 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed.
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on throttle 
oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, less 
off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.
ACURA NSX GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS