--- PAGE 1 ---

1
ACURA ARX-06 GTP
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
 Tire Data » 11
 Front & Rear Aero » 12
Tires & Aero » 11
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Aero Calculator » 12
Chassis » 13
 Front » 13
 Rear » 14
 Front Corners » 15
 Rear Corners » 16
Dampers » 17
Systems » 19
 Lighting and Brake Spec » 19
 Hybrid Config and Fuel » 20
 Traction Control and Gear Ratios » 21
Setup Tips » 23
SETUP TIPS
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dashboard » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Acura ARX-06 GTP! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH PUSHROD-
ACTUATED INBOARD SPRINGS
TWIN-TURBO V6 WITH BOSCH 
MGU HYBRID SYSTEM
LENGTH
5100 mm
200.8 in
WIDTH
2000 mm
78.7 in
DISPLACEMENT
2.4 Liters
146.5 CID
TORQUE
396 lb-ft
537 Nm
RPM LIMIT
9985 RPM 
POWER
671 bhp
500 kW
WHEELBASE
3148 mm
124 in
DRY WEIGHT
1030 kg
2271 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1176 kg
2594 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls to
adjust the Brake Bias and Traction Control systems. While this is
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while
out on the track. 
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift up or down. However, the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage.
In these situations the downshift command will simply be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when all of the shift lights on the 
steering wheel have changed to red.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number of 
laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning 
the car to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. 
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
Vital information relating to the car’s performance and driver-adjustable settings can all be found on the digital display 
integrated into the Acura ARX-06’s steering wheel.
Lap Time Data
A banner across the top of the display shows information about the current and previous lap 
times. The left box displays the previously completed lap, the middle box shows the current time 
delta to the best lap time in the session, and the right box shows the predicted lap time for the 
current lap. The split box and the predicted lap time update live (but stop briefly when a sector 
is completed), with the split box turning red for a slower lap and green for a faster lap.
E Displays the currently active Hybrid deploy mode
F Amount of fuel remaining in the tank, shown as a percentage
SoC %
Current Hybrid System State of Charge, or how much energy is remaining in the battery storage 
system
Laps Number of laps completed in the session
TC1 Map Currently active Traction Control Slip setting
TC2 Map Currently active Traction Control Gain setting
TMOT Engine cooling (water) temperature
TOIL Engine oil temperature
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear, shown in the center of the display
Tire Pressures Live tire pressures, shown below the Gear Indicator for each tire
Tire Surface Temperature Live surface tire temperature for each tire
BAL Current Brake Bias setting
F REM Amount of fuel remaining
ARB F/R Currently selected Front (blue) and Rear (red) ARB settings
F LAP Amount of fuel used in the previous lap
POIL Engine Oil Pressure
PWAT Engine Water Pressure

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | DASH PAGES
WHEELSPIN / BRAKE LOCK INDICATOR LIGHTS
Two sets of LED lights are situated behind the steering wheel on the dash to quickly communicate to the driver if 
anywheelspin or brake lockup is occurring. The left LED cluster corresponds to the left wheels and the right cluster 
corresponds to the right wheels.
Traction Control
When the clusters light up all LEDs in blue the Traction Control system is intervening to reduce 
wheelspin. Severe cases of wheelspin and TC system activation will produce a solid blue light 
and the lights will begin flashing for less amounts of TC intervention.
Brake Lockup
Whenever braking force is sufficient to begin locking a wheel the LEDs will illuminate to show 
both which wheel is locking and how severe the lockup is. Pink lights indicate front wheel lockup 
and yellow lights indicate rear wheel lockups, with lockups becoming more severe with more 
LEDs illuminated. The image above shows both front wheels locked with a slight lockup on the 
left-rear wheel.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
PIT LIMITER
Once the optimum shift point has been reached all LEDs will change to red and begin flashing.
When the pit limiter is active the shift lights (and the status clusters on either side of the shift lights) will change to pink and a “SPEED” 
indicator will appear at the top right of the steering wheel display. When the pit limiter is enabled and speed is above the pit road speed
limit the center lights will be off. As speed decreases to the pit road speed limit the lights will illuminate and converge in the center until
all lights are on, signaling the car is traveling at the pit road speed limit. The lights are tuned for 2nd gear RPMs only, running with the pit 
limiter on in another gear won’t affect the pit road speed limit but will change how many lights are illuminated when the car is running at
the pit road speed limit.
The top of the steering wheel has a set of lights to help the driver know when to shift up to the next gear while accelerating. As RPM 
increases, the lights will illuminate from the left to right starting with green and ending with two red LEDs on the right.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle setting changes the angle of attack of
the rear wing. Increasing the angle will increase the amount of 
downforce produced and move the aero balance rearward but 
will increase the amount of drag the wing produces. Reducing the 
angle will reduce overall downforce and shift aero balance forward, 
but will reduce drag and allow for a higher top speed. This angle 
is expressed as a reference measurement, not an absolute angle 
relative to the ground.
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool used to display the car’s approximate 
aerodynamic values in a given configuration. Changes to the car’s 
aerodynamic settings will be reflected in the Aero Calculator, giving 
an idea of how the car will behave aerodynamically while on the race 
track. This calculator can also be used to determine what changes 
need to be made to the car to alleviate aerodynamically-induced 
handling issues.
AERO SETTINGS
FRONT/REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front and Rear Ride height via 
telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting.
DOWNFORCE BALANCE
Displayed in percent of Front downforce, this value shows how 
much of the car’s total downforce is over the front axle. A higher 
percentage value indicates more front downforce, increasing 
oversteer in mid- to high-speed corners and a lower percentage 
value indicates more rear downforce, increasing understeer in
mid- to high-speed corners.
L/D
The “L/D” value is the ratio of Lift (downforce) to Drag. This 
quantifies how efficiently the car’s bodywork is producing downforce 
in terms of how much drag is being produced as a result. A higher 
L/D value means more downforce is being produced for each unit of 
drag, meaning the bodywork is being more efficient. Having a higher 
L/D value without sacrificing overall downforce will result in a faster, 
more efficient car. Optimum values for L/D can vary based on the 
aerodynamic configuration and track type.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
HEAVE SPRING
The Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles loads 
when the chassis moves in a purely vertical direction and does 
not experience loads generated from chassis roll. The front Heave 
Spring will influence the chassis’ handling balance during braking 
and over bumps, but is primarily intended to control increasing 
aerodynamic loads with higher speeds. Stiffer Heave Spring rates 
will stiffen the suspension in vertical travel and result in a more 
consistent aerodynamic platform but can reduce mechanical grip 
over rough surfaces. Softer Heave Springs will increase mechanical 
grip but could allow too much movement to keep the aerodynamic 
behavior consistent.
HEAVE PERCH OFFSET
The Heave Perch Offset is a way to preload the Heave Spring 
element, allowing front ride height changes without inducing any 
asymmetric loading to the suspension. Decreasing the value will 
preload the Heave spring and raise the front ride heights, increasing 
the value will unload the spring and lower the front ride heights.
HEAVE SPRING DEFLECTION
The Heave Spring Deflection is how much the Heave Spring has 
compressed from its free (unloaded) length. This is not directly 
adjustable, but is altered as a result of other front suspension 
adjustments, especially the Heave Perch Offset setting. Higher 
deflection indicates the spring is under higher pre-load, lower 
deflection indicates a more relaxed spring.
HEAVE DAMPER DEFLECTION
The Heave Damper Deflection is an indicator of how much travel 
is available in the Heave element before bottoming out. This value 
doesn’t represent any loading in the suspension, only the Heave 
Damper’s position.
PUSHROD LENGTH DELTA
This adjusts the length of both front suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great
way to adjust front ride height without altering the preload on the 
Heave Spring.
ARB SIZE
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) is a spring device in the front suspension 
that counteracts roll movement but not vertical loading. Changing 
the ARB diameter will alter the front suspension’s roll stiffness and 
handling balance: Stiffer ARB settings will increase front roll stiffness 
and induce understeer, softer ARB settings will reduce stiffness 
and reduce understeer. Disconnecting the bar will remove the ARB 
from the suspension entirely and can greatly reduce mechanical 
understeer, however this reduction in roll stiffness can hurt 
aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners.
ARB BLADES
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be changed to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This 
option changes the orientation of the ARB blades and are given 
numerical values for simplicity, with #1 being the softest option 
and the blades becoming stiffer as the value is increased to the 
maximum setting of #5. Based on stiffness the blade option will 
produce the same result as a similar adjustment to the ARB Size: 
Stiffer blade settings will increase front roll stiffness and induce 
understeer while softer blade settings will reduce front roll stiffness 
and reduce understeer. This setting can be adjusted in the car from 
the F8 black box using the “FARB” setting.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
REAR
HEAVE SPRING
The Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles loads
when the chassis moves in a purely vertical direction and does
not experience loads generated from chassis roll. The rear Heave 
Spring will influence the chassis’ handling balance during braking 
and over bumps, but is primarily intended to control increasing 
aerodynamic loads with higher speeds. Stiffer Heave Spring rates 
will stiffen the suspension in vertical travel and result in a more 
consistent aerodynamic platform but can reduce mechanical grip 
over rough surfaces. Softer Heave Springs will increase mechanical 
grip but could allow too much movement to keep the aerodynamic 
behavior consistent.
HEAVE PERCH OFFSET
The Heave Perch Offset is a way to preload the Heave Spring 
element, allowing rear ride height changes without inducing any 
asymmetric loading to the suspension. Decreasing the value will 
preload the Heave spring and raise the rear ride heights, increasing 
the value will unload the spring and lower the rear ride heights.
HEAVE SPRING DEFLECTION
The Heave Spring Deflection is how much the Heave Spring
has compressed from its free (unloaded) length. This is not
directly adjustable, but is altered as a result of other rear
suspension adjustments, especially the Heave Perch Offset setting.
Higher deflection indicates the spring is under higher pre-load, lower 
deflection indicates a more relaxed spring.
HEAVE DAMPER DEFLECTION
The Heave Damper Deflection is an indicator of how much travel 
is available in the Heave element before bottoming out. This value 
doesn’t represent any loading in the suspension, only the Heave 
Damper’s position.
PUSHROD LENGTH DELTA
This adjusts the length of both rear suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great
way to adjust rear ride height without altering the preload on the 
Heave Spring.
ARB SIZE
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) is a spring device in the rear suspension 
that counteracts roll movement but not vertical loading. Changing 
the ARB diameter will alter the rear suspension’s roll stiffness and 
handling balance: Stiffer ARB settings will increase rear roll stiffness 
and induce oversteer, softer ARB settings will reduce stiffness 
and reduce oversteer. Disconnecting the bar will remove the ARB 
from the suspension entirely and can greatly reduce mechanical 
oversteer, however this reduction in roll stiffness can hurt 
aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners.
ARB BLADES
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be changed to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This 
option changes the orientation of the ARB blades and are given 
numerical values for simplicity, with #1 being the softest option 
and the blades becoming stiffer as the value is increased to the 
maximum setting of #5. Based on stiffness the blade option will 
produce the same result as a similar adjustment to the ARB Size: 
Stiffer blade settings will increase rear roll stiffness and induce 
oversteer while softer blade settings will reduce rear roll stiffness 
and reduce oversteer. This setting can be adjusted in the car from 
the F8 black box using the “RARB” setting.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the rear end, 
Toe will primarily alter how stable the car is in a straight line and 
how easily the car will change direction. Toe-out settings (negative 
garage value) will increase turn-in response and make the car less 
stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage value) will 
increase straight-line stability.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight under each tire while the car is stationary in the garage. 
Weight placement around the car is crucial to a car’s performance 
and is ultimately what determines how the car handles.
These are not directly adjustable, but will change frequently through 
the setup process due to changing loads on the suspension. The 
most effective way to change the values is through the Torsion Bar 
Turns setting, however all four corner weights will be affected. 
RIDE HEIGHT
Front Ride Height is the distance from the ground to the bottom of 
the chassis plank projected to the front axle. These are reference 
heights, not necessarily ground clearance values, so values of zero 
(or even negative) in telemetry may not necessarily indicate the 
chassis being in contact with the ground.
TORSION BAR DEFLECTION
Torsion Bar Deflection is how far the suspension torsion bars have 
deflected from their unloaded state. Higher deflection equates to 
more preload on a given torsion bar, while lower deflections indicate 
a bar with less preload.
TORSION BAR TURNS
Each torsion bar can be preloaded to raise or lower a given corner 
of the car and increase or decrease the preload on the torsion bar 
springs. Increasing the Turn value will preload the torsion bar and 
raise the corner’s ride height, decreasing the Turn value will reduce 
the preload on a given torsion bar and lower the corner’s ride height.
TORSION BAR O.D.
The corner Torsion Bars are the spring elements for each corner of 
the car and behave in the same way as a conventional coil spring. 
The Outer Diameter of each torsion bar determines the bar’s spring 
rate and how stiff the bar is through changing suspension loads. 
Larger diameter bars will have a higher spring rate and will be stiffer, 
which is great for maintaining a consistent aerodynamic attitude 
around the track but will reduce mechanical grip, especially in 
slow corners. Smaller torsion bars will have a lower spring rate and 
produce more mechanical grip, however the extra movement from 
the suspension can hurt aerodynamic performance at high speeds.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight under each tire while the car is stationary in the garage. 
Weight placement around the car is crucial to a car’s performance 
and is ultimately what determines how the car handles.
These are not directly adjustable, but will change frequently
through the setup process due to changing loads on the suspension.
The most effective way to change the values is through the Torsion 
Bar Turns setting, however all four corner weights will be affected.
RIDE HEIGHT
Rear Ride Height is the distance from the ground to the bottom of 
the chassis plank projected to the rear axle. These are reference 
heights, not necessarily ground clearance values, so values of zero 
(or even negative) in telemetry may not necessarily indicate the 
chassis being in contact with the ground.
TORSION BAR DEFLECTION
Torsion Bar Deflection is how far the suspension torsion bars have 
deflected from their unloaded state. Higher deflection equates to 
more preload on a given torsion bar, while lower deflections indicate 
a bar with less preload.
TORSION BAR TURNS
Each torsion bar can be preloaded to raise or lower a given corner 
of the car and increase or decrease the preload on the torsion bar 
springs. Increasing the Turn value will preload the torsion bar and 
raise the corner’s ride height, decreasing the Turn value will reduce 
the preload on a given torsion bar and lower the corner’s ride height.
TORSION BAR O.D.
The corner Torsion Bars are the spring elements for each corner of 
the car and behave in the same way as a conventional coil spring. 
The Outer Diameter of each torsion bar determines the bar’s spring 
rate and how stiff the bar is through changing suspension loads. 
Larger diameter bars will have a higher spring rate and will be stiffer, 
which is great for maintaining a consistent aerodynamic attitude 
around the track but will reduce mechanical grip, especially in 
slow corners. Smaller torsion bars will have a lower spring rate and 
produce more mechanical grip, however the extra movement from 
the suspension can hurt aerodynamic performance at high speeds.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
HEAVE DAMPERS
LS COMPRESSION DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer on throttle application.
For shocks on the front end, increasing Low-Speed Compression 
can induce understeer under braking and at turn-in, reducing it will 
reduce understeer. Increasing Low-Speed Compression on the rear 
of the car will increase traction on initial throttle application, while 
reducing it can reduce on-throttle understeer.
HS COMPRESSION DAMPING
High-Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track.
HS COMPRESSION DAMPING SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression Damping Slope setting controls the 
overall shape of the high-speed compression side of the shock. 
Lower slope values produce a flatter, more digressive curve while 
higher values result in a more linear and aggressive compression 
graph. The value of the slope setting is very important in controlling 
bump absorption at high shock velocities and controlling the 
aerodynamic platform. A lower slope will be helpful for rougher 
tracks in absorbing bumps and sharp impacts such as curbs, while 
a higher slope will keep the suspension more rigid, which can be 
helpful in resisting compression and raising the chassis above a 
bump in the track surface. It’s important to understand that these 
settings will affect the range the High-Speed Compression will have, 
with higher slope values producing a higher overall force for high-
speed compression.
LS REBOUND DAMPING
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. 
On the front of the car, higher Low-Speed Rebound can induce 
understeer on throttle application while higher settings on the rear of 
the car can induce understeer under braking.
HS REBOUND DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over
bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly
the shock will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to 
extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on 
handling in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce 
similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
ROLL DAMPERS
LS DAMPING
The Low-Speed damping setting on the Roll Dampers will alter
how resistant the damper is to both compression and expansion 
during roll. Higher values will produce a stiffer shock with chassis 
roll, which can load the outer tire in a corner more quickly, and
lower values will soften the shock and delay load to the outer tire.
Due to the Roll Damper’s operation, rolling the chassis will result in 
the damper compressing for one direction and rebounding for the 
other direction, thus both compression and rebound are adjusted 
equally together.
HS DAMPING
The High-Speed damping setting will alter how stiff the front Roll 
Damper is at higher velocities, such as one-wheel curb strikes 
or side-to-side oscillations. As with the Low-Speed setting, the 
compression and rebound values are linked as one.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SYSTEMS
SYSTEMS
LIGHTING & BRAKE SPEC
ROOF ID LIGHT COLOR
The color of the identifier lights on the roof of the car can be 
changed to better identify similarly-painted cars in nighttime 
conditions. This adjustment has no effect on vehicle performance.
PAD COMPOUND
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake 
Pad Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, 
reducing the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing for better 
brake pressure modulation, while “Medium” and “High” provide more 
friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while increasing 
the risk of a brake lockup.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for
a given situation.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SYSTEMS
HYBRID CONFIG & FUEL
NO DEPLOY
In the “No Deploy” mode, the Hybrid system will not use any energy 
stored in the battery. This essentially disables the Hybrid drive 
system and will only charge the battery throughout a lap. This is only 
available in Qualifying and Test sessions and is used to fully charge 
the battery before switching to Qual mode.
QUAL
This mode is intended to be used on flying laps during qualifying 
sessions and will attempt to use all of the battery charge during 
a lap. This is only available during Qualifying and Test sessions 
and should be preceded by the No Deploy setting on outlaps and 
warmup laps to ensure the battery is fully charged before switching 
to the Qual mode.
ATTACK
Attack mode reduces the target State of Charge to use more power 
during race sessions to help with overtaking. Generally the laptime 
gain from this mode is not enough to offset the loss in pace from 
having to recharge and recover from using Attack mode, so it 
should be used only when it is absolutely necessary to complete 
an overtake. This mode can also be used on the final lap for a burst 
of speed since the battery is no longer needed. This mode is only 
available for Practice, Race, and Test sessions.
BALANCED
The Balanced mode is the primary Race mode for the Hybrid system. 
This mode will attempt to deploy electrical charge to reduce lap 
times as much as possible while still maintaining a reasonable State 
of Charge over the duration of a lap. At the start of a session, it will 
take a few flying laps for the Hybrid system to learn the track and 
optimize deployment for the best lap times, and this mode is only 
available in Practice, Race, and Test sessions.
BUILD
The Build mode will attempt to build battery charge as quickly
as possible in the event of a low battery charge or if it is needed 
prior to switching to Attack mode. Note that this will compromise
lap times significantly compared to Balanced, and it’s important
to switch back to Balanced mode once the battery has charged
to avoid losing harvested energy and to prevent unnecessary
loss in pace. This mode is only available in Practice, Race,
and Test sessions.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage.
The Acura ARX-06’s hybrid system can be set to one of five deploy modes to alter the target State of Charge (SoC) 
for the end of a lap. Each of these modes will use varying levels of energy throughout a lap to reach a target, and thus 
some will produce more power over the course of a lap and faster lap times at the cost of discharging the battery.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SYSTEMS
TRACTION CONTROL & GEAR RATIOS
TRACTION CONTROL GAIN
Gain is the amount of intervention the Traction Control will exert 
when wheel spin is detected. Higher values result in a more 
aggressive throttle cut to control wheelspin. This value can be 
changed in the F8 black box while driving.
TRACTION CONTROL SLIP
Slip is how sensitive the Traction Control system will be to 
wheelspin. Higher values will activate the Traction Control system 
with smaller amounts of wheelspin, while lower values will allow 
slightly more wheelspin prior to activating the system. This value can 
be changed in the F8 black box while driving.
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the gear ratios in the transmission. Two choices 
are available: Short and Long. The Short setting will choose a more 
acceleration-focused gear set for tracks with shorter straights or 
slower corners, while the Long option will choose gears more suited 
to high-speed tracks with long straights.
GEAR SPEEDS
Each of the transmission’s seven forward gears will show the 
approximate ground speed at which the engine will reach maximum 
RPM. These values will change based on which Gear Stack is 
selected, but the true maximum speed may differ slightly due to on-
track conditions.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SYSTEMS
REAR DIFF SPEC
DIFF RAMP ANGLES
The Differential Ramp Angles affect the force exerted by the 
differential to keep both driven tires locked together under 
acceleration. Lower values produce more locking force, and more 
locking force increases understeer during braking and acceleration 
phases. Higher values will produce less locking force and induce 
oversteer in these situations.
CLUTCH FRICTION PLATES
The number of clutch faces affect how much overall force is applied 
to keep the differential locked. Treated as a multiplier, adding more 
faces produces increasingly more locking force.
PRELOAD
The differential can be set with a static load applied. Higher values 
produce more locking force in the differential in all conditions, 
producing more understeer under acceleration and deceleration. 
This value will also affect mid-corner performance, with higher 
values not allowing the differential to unlock as much, increasing 
mid-corner understeer.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | SETUP TIPS 
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
PROVIDED SETUPS
CHASSIS HEIGHTS
BASELINE
A slightly more stable version of the high downforce setup for a 
driver’s first time in the car or for those wanting more stability than 
the high downforce setup provides.
HIGH DOWNFORCE
For use at most tracks. Although quite efficient and creating the 
most downforce, this setup also makes the most drag.
MEDIUM DOWNFORCE
For use at track with long straights like Spa. Sacrificing more 
downforce and efficiency for more straight line speed.
LOW DOWNFORCE
For use at Le Mans. Lowest drag and downforce trim.
DAYTONA
A variation of the Low Downforce setup for use at Daytona with 
changes to avoid bottoming on the oval banking.
DAYTONA 24H
A variation on the Daytona setup made specifically with time of year, 
expected weather, and the demands of a 24 hour race setup in mind.
The Acura ARX-06 generates the most downforce with an average 
rear ride height around 45mm and an average front ride height 
around 25mm.
More rake (high rear ride heights compared to front ride heights) will 
move aero balance forward, inducing oversteer, and less rake will 
shift the aero rearward and induce understeer.
You can affect the dynamic ride heights (without changing the roll 
stiffness) on track by adjusting the front heave spring and the rear 
heave spring.
FIXED
The high downforce setup with limited fuel for the official
IMSA fixed series.
FIXED QUAL
The fixed series setup with qualifying fuel and hybrid deployment.
FIXED LEMANS
The low downforce setup with limited fuel for the official
IMSA fixed series.
FIXED LEMANS QUAL
The fixed LDF series setup with qualifying fuel and
hybrid deployment.
FIXED DAYTONA
The Daytona setup with limited fuel for the official IMSA fixed series.
FIXED DAYTONA QUAL
The Daytona series setup with qualifying fuel and
hybrid deployment.
A soft rear heave spring will allow the rear of the car to drop under 
aero load but you will lose some amount of downforce and efficiency 
mid corner as the rear ride heights will be well under the target 
rear heights for maximum downforce (45mm). Some compromises 
will need to be made regarding drag/downforce and dynamic aero 
balance.
There are 12 iRacing setups provided for the Acura ARX-06 GTP:
The fuel level in all setups (except the fixed IMSA setups) are set to 89 L, which is the maximum tank capacity for this car.

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | USER MANUAL
ACURA ARX-06 GTP | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC ADJUSTMENTS
MECHANICAL ADJUSTMENTS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Should you choose to make adjustments to the setup, the easiest 
way to change the aerodynamic balance of the setup is through 
adjustment of the rear wing angle. Generally speaking, if you find 
you want to adjust wing position in more than a click in either 
direction it is recommended you start from one of the other 
downforce trim setups (high, medium, or low).
Lower wing angle = More oversteer, less downforce, and higher 
straight line speed.
Higher wing angle = More understeer, more downforce, and lower 
straight line speed.
If you would like to change the mechanical balance without changing 
the aero balance the front and rear ARBs and ARB blades may be 
adjusted. This can be particularly useful if you are happy with the 
general balance of the car but want either more or less rotation in 
slow speed corners.
The rear differential is a powerful tool in the Acura, and the simplest 
change one can make is increasing or decreasing the preload. While 
adjusting the preload will affect the on throttle behavior you will 
probably notice more of a change on entry and turn in.
If you would like to change the aero balance without changing the 
downforce/drag trim adjust the rear ride height by increasing or 
decreasing the rear pushrod length offset. This will affect balance 
in all situations due to the high amount of downforce but this will be 
particularly noticeable in mid and high speed corners.
Lower pushrod length delta = Lower rear ride height, less rake, and a 
more rearward aero balance (understeer).
Higher pushrod length delta = Higher rear ride height, more rake, 
and a more forward aero balance (oversteer).
Bigger front ARB/higher blade value = More understeer
Smaller front ARB/lower blade values = Less understeer
Bigger rear ARB/higher blade values = More oversteer
Smaller rear ARB/lower blade values = Less oversteer
More preload = Less rotation off throttle, more stability on entry.
Less preload = More rotation off throttle, less stability on entry.