--- PAGE 1 ---

1
ARCA CARS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7 
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 9
 Front » 10
 Front ARB » 11
Chassis » 10
Tires » 9 
 Front Corners » 12 
 Rear Corners » 14
 Rear » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of a ARCA Series car! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your continued support, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
ARCA CARS | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT 
FRONT / LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM REAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
4927mm
194in
WIDTH
1956mm
77in
WHEELBASE
2794mm
110in
DRY WEIGHT
1417kg
3125lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1564kg
3450lbs
RPM LIMIT
8000 RPM
 
DISPLACEMENT
6.49 Liters
396 CID
TORQUE
525lb-ft
710Nm
POWER
700 bhp
522kW

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference. 
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary, but the clutch isn’t required once the vehicle 
is in motion for upshifts or downshifts. To upshift, simply let off 
ARCA CARS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
the throttle and select the next higher gear. To downshift, give the 
throttle a blip while selecting the next lower gear. If you downshift 
too early, or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and 
engine speed will be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear 
and a possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. 
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will 
be automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of 
the other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to 
Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that 
fits your needs. If you would like to customize the setup, simply 
make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and 
click apply. If you would like to save your setup for future use click 
ARCA CARS | INTRODUCTION
“Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To access all 
of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side 
of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver 
or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of 
the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage 
as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
TACHOMETER
The current engine RPM is shown in large digits in the center 
of the display
BATTERY
Current voltage supplied from the car’s battery
WATER TEMP
Current engine cooling water temperature, in °F or °C
ARCA CARS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
All three ARCA Series cars feature the same Holley EFI digital dash display. This display provides easy-to-read data 
to the driver, but operates at a lower refresh rate.
OIL TEMP
Current engine oil temperature, in °F or °C
FUEL PRESSURE
Fuel system pressure, in PSI or Bar
WATER PRESSURE
Engine cooling water pressure, in PSI or Bar
OIL PRESSURE
Engine Oil system pressure, in PSI or Bar

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES
COLD PRESSURES
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. 
Higher pressures will reduce heat buildup, but will provide better 
grip with higher loads and higher speeds. Lower pressures will 
increase heat buildup, but will provide better grip at lower loads and 
lower speeds. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics 
for optimum performance.
HOT PRESSURES
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. On left-turn ovals, the right-front tire should always 
see the highest buildup on a balanced car, while the left sides should 
be roughly the same, but it is important to monitor the hot pressures 
after a run and adjust accordingly. Ideally, the difference in hot 
pressures on one side of the car should be roughly equal to the 
difference between cold pressures after a longer run.
TIRE PAGE
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR TIRES)
LAST TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car 
has returned from the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a 
tire is doing on-track is reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these 
values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. Center 
temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done by 
each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment while on track. These values are 
measured in three zones across the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BALLAST FORWARD
To meet minimum weight requirements, tungsten blocks are installed 
within the lower frame rails on the chassis. These blocks can be 
moved fore and aft in the chassis, directly influencing the car’s Nose 
Weight value. The Ballast Forward value is simply a measurement of 
the location of these tungsten blocks relative to a reference point in 
the frame rail. Moving ballast forward in the car raises Nose Weight, 
moving it rearward reduces Nose Weight.
NOSE WEIGHT
The vehicle’s Nose Weight is the percentage of total vehicle weight 
on the front tires, directly adjustable through the Ballast Forward 
adjustment. Nose Weight represents a rough approximation of the 
longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has a direct 
influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle. Higher Nose 
Weight values result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, good for 
low-grip tracks and situations where the vehicle is set up with extra 
front downforce. Conversely, lower Nose Weight values are good for 
high-grip tracks and configurations with high rear downforce levels. 
Smaller tracks will also see benefits from lower Nose Weight values, 
as it will allow the rear of the vehicle to rotate easier. 
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as Front ARB preload. For an oval car, Cross 
Weight is one of the most influential settings for grip level while the 
vehicle is in a turn. Higher Cross Weight values will add weight to the 
left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry and helping drive-off 
on corner exit. Lower Cross-Weight values will help the vehicle rotate 
and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent speed from being lost, 
however too low can result in unstable entry and exit. 
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering 
response is in the vehicle’s steering box. This ratio can be thought 
of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one degree 
of turn on the steering box output shaft. For example, a 12:1 steering 
ratio will require 12° of steering input to rotate the steering output 
shaft 1° . A steering box with a lower ratio will feel more responsive 
to steering inputs and will require less steering input to reach the 
amount needed to navigate a corner. A steering box with a higher 
ratio will feel less responsive and will require more steering input to 
reach the amount needed to navigate a corner. 
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism off-
center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to compensate 
for chassis settings which place the wheel off center and is primarily 
a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more 
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference 
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for 
a given situation.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT ARB
DIAMETER
The Front Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the roll 
stiffness of the front suspension. Increasing the diameter of the ARB 
will result in a higher roll stiffness on the front suspension, helping 
to keep the chassis flat relative to the racing surface, but can also 
increase understeer. 
LINE SLACK
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay bar 
engagement or apply a static load to the bar. The linkage itself is a 
slider-type linkage, and any positive link slack will require the left-
front wheel to travel prior to the ARB experiencing any load. This 
adjustment directly affects the bar’s Preload, outlined below.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
On ovals, the preload will never go above zero. A preload display of 
zero with a positive Link Slack value indicates a configuration where 
the suspension must take up slack in the bar before loading the bar. 
This is useful for allowing the car to drop down from the required 
ride heights without putting any load into the bar, which can help 
keep the front end down at high-speed tracks.
For road courses, preload can be either positive or negative, but 
should be kept near zero.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
COIL BINDING & “PIGTAIL ” SPRINGS
The front suspension for the ARCA Series Cars emulates “pigtail”-
style coil-bind springs. Coil-binding is when the coils in a spring are 
all in contact with each other, thus creating a “solid” suspension 
element. Instead of binding the full spring (coils are in contact all the 
way around the spring), a “Pigtail” spring binds only one side of the 
spring using a specially-shaped lower spring perch to compress only 
one side of the spring. This produces both a very soft initial rate and 
allows for a very stiff rate at full travel, providing a low dynamic ride 
height, a more compliant suspension when compared to a traditional 
coil-bind setup, and excellent aerodynamic platform control at the 
low heights.
This effect is created with a two-stage, progressive front spring rate. 
When the chassis is up above the minimum ride heights the springs 
will be very soft, around 200 lb/in. As the suspension travels while 
on track from building aerodynamic loads the springs will eventually 
bind and transition to a much stiffer second rate, selected in the 
garage. The point where this transition happens is controlled by the 
Spring Angle setting, described in more detail in its own section. For 
more information on tuning front ride heights with this suspension 
system, see the “Setup Tips” section at the end of this guide.
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom of the chassis frame rail 
just behind the wheel well and can be roughly identified via the 
skirt rivets at the bottom of the door. Since these values are 
measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but 
instead provide a reliable value for the height of the car off of 
the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, however this could cause the chassis to 
pitch and roll too much, hurting aerodynamic performance at faster 
tracks. The front Spring Rate values represent the spring stiffness 
once the spring is bound, with the rate prior to that being a constant 
rate around 200lb/in.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
SPRING ANGLE
Spring angle changes the position of the lower spring perch within 
the lower control arm spring bucket. This value rotates the spring 
perch around the spring’s center axis, relocating the highest point 
of the perch farther inboard or outboard to change how the spring 
binds in travel and the spring rate transitions from the softer initial 
rate to the rate selected in the Spring Rate option. Higher angle 
values will reduce the amount of suspension travel necessary to 
reach the spring rate transition while lower values will increase the 
amount of travel necessary.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.
HS COMP SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the high- and 
low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking. Higher 
rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will 
allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can better 
control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will result 
in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for 
smoother surfaces.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so 
it is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, all four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward 
(negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel 
but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as adding 
straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front will cause 
the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. On the front, 
toe-out is generally preferred. More toe-out typically provides better 
turn in and straight line stability, but at the cost of increased tire 
temperature and wear.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing rear ride height will increase rear downforce as well as 
slightly increasing overall downforce and drag. Conversely, reducing 
rear ride height will reduce rear downforce and reduce overall 
downforce and reduce drag. See the Setup Tips section for more 
info on rear height targets.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or pitch change) 
which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical 
grip is often better with softer springs which allow for more track 
surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control. For ovals, a 
softer left-rear spring (relative to the right-rear) is desired to prevent 
the dynamic cross from being too high in the corners.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.
HS COMP SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the high- and 
low-speed settings.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking. Higher 
rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will 
allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can better 
control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will result 
in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for 
smoother surfaces.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative 
camber is desired on all four wheels on road courses, but on ovals 
positive camber is desired on the left sides. Higher camber values 
will increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will 
reduce the amount of grip the tire will have on throttle. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.
TOE-IN
Rear toe in this vehicle serves to introduce “Skew”, where the vehicle 
travels through the air with a non-zero amount of yaw relative to the 
direction of airflow, producing Sideforce. Setting the right-rear to a 
negative value and the left-rear to a positive value will add positive 
Skew, decreasing dynamic crossweight and shifting aero balance 
forward slightly. Setting the right-rear to a positive value and left-
rear to a negative value will add negative Skew, reducing sideforce 
and shifting the rear spoiler behind the greenhouse. Positive skew is 
useful at large short tracks and intermediate tracks, while negative 
skew will reduce drag for superspeedways and aid in drive-off for 
smaller short tracks.
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The rear axle is held in place laterally via a Track Bar, mounted to 
the left side of the rear axle housing and to the chassis frame on 
the right side. Overall height of the track bar dictates roll center 
location for the rear suspension and thus affects roll stiffness, with 
a higher track bar increasing rear roll stiffness and shifting the 
chassis balance to oversteer. Lower track bar settings will increase 
lateral traction due to a reduction in roll stiffness and roll center 
height. The track bar end heights can also be set to different values, 
known as “rake” or “split”. A positive track bar rake, with the right-
side mounted higher, will increase oversteer on corner exit, as well 
as adding skew through vertical travel. Negative track bar rake 
will increase traction on corner exit, but will remove skew through 
vertical travel.
Track Bar heights are shown as live values relative to the ground in 
the garage. Since the Right Rear mount is on the chassis itself, this 
value will change whenever ride height changes are made, while 
the Left Rear mount (which is on the rear axle tube) will only change 
significantly for tire pressure adjustments.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
REAR
ARCA CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed.
ARB DIAMETER
The Rear Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the 
roll stiffness of the rear suspension. Increasing the diameter of 
the ARB will result in a higher roll stiffness on the rear suspension, 
increasing oversteer, while reducing the ARB diameter will reduce 
roll stiffness and increase understeer. A rear ARB is only available 
at Road Courses.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is 
in the garage. Since a rear ARB is only available at Road Course 
circuits, it is best to keep this value as close to zero as possible 
when using a rear ARB to prevent asymmetric handling issues. When 
the rear ARB is not in use, this setting has no effect on the chassis.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
ARCA CARS | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | SETUP TIPS 
SETUP TIPS
RIDE HEIGHTS & ATTITUDE
FIXED SETUP RACING
The ARCA Series Cars are an excellent step into the high-level oval 
side of iRacing’s service, featuring a high amount of power paired 
with a good amount of downforce and sideforce making the power 
and speeds easy to handle for drivers of all skill levels.
As with the NASCAR Trucks, aerodynamic performance is just under 
what is necessary to be able to run wide-open at many tracks, 
As with all oval cars, the setup process involves hitting 
predetermined height targets in the corners and finding a way 
to keep the chassis and body in that position as long and as 
consistently as possible. Your targets for chassis setup will be a 
minimum valence height and a rear height range, measured at the 
Right Rear Ride Height (RRRideHeight) telemetry trace.
VALENCE HEIGHT
Unlike modern NASCAR cars the ARCA Series still uses a composite 
valence, or air dam, instead of a flat splitter on the front of the car. 
These tend to be less sensitive to overall height and are typically 
more forgiving with height variations through the corner, but can 
be over-traveled or set too high. Generally the most efficient height 
is around 0.25” or just above 6mm, measured via the telemetry 
channel CFSRrideheight. Generally, if the valence is higher than 
this, aerodynamic balance will shift forward (more oversteer) with 
less overall downforce, while lower heights will increase overall 
downforce and shift the balance rearward for more understeer.
Tuning the valence height is relatively a relatively simple process and 
can be done in three steps:
• Spring Rate selection
• Spring Angle setting
• Spring Perch Offset adjustment
so a keen sense of how much grip is available and skillful throttle 
modulation is key to fast lap times. Generally, in race trim, it’s often 
going to be faster to crack the throttle slightly on entry and let the 
car fall into the corner than to stay wide open and fight the front 
tires to reach the line you want to run. 
Selecting spring rates is going to come down to personal preference 
and track characteristics. Tracks with high loads or very smooth 
surfaces can use very stiff spring rates, while rougher tracks or 
tracks with lower cornering speeds may see better performance with 
slightly softer spring rates. Further, some drivers may prefer one 
spring stiffer than the other or both the same rate, but this will come 
down to testing configurations and finding which you like the best.
Pigtail-style coil bind springs only bind one half of the spring while 
the other half is left to act as a working spring. The Spring Angle 
setting rotates the lower spring perch within the lower control arm 
spring bucket to change how far inboard the bound half of the 
spring is on the suspension, changing how much suspension travel 
is available before the Spring Rate chosen in the previous step takes 
over. Increasing the Angle value will reduce suspension travel and 
cause the valence to run higher while reducing the angle will allow 
more travel before the spring rate transition and lower the valence. 
Use this Spring Angle value to get the front end as close to the 
target value as you can, then move to the Spring Perch Offsets.
Since the Pigtail springs work entirely within the main spring, the 
Spring Perch Offset values can be used to fine-tune the front-end 
ride heights once the height has been roughed-in with the Spring 
Angle. Increasing the Spring Perch Offset values (right clicks in the 
garage) will lower the static ride height and lower the splitter height 
when loaded in the corner. Conversely, decreasing the values (left-
clicks) will raise the front of the car and the splitter’s dynamic height 
in the corner. If large Spring Perch Offset changes are needed, it’s 
usually best to go back to the Spring Angle and change that value 
instead of large Perch changes. 
The ARCA Series official races will be a fixed-setup affair, so very 
little is available to tune the car to individual preferences. Steering 
Ratio can be altered to fit various driving styles, but it’s very 
important to understand this does not change the car’s handling 
characteristics, only how much steering input is required to navigate 
a corner. For drivers who feel the car doesn’t respond well to the 
steering input they are using, a faster (lower-ratio) box should help. 
If the car is too darty, or a driver’s steering input is too excessive 
and slides the front tires, a slower (higher-ratio) box will dull the 
response and straighten the front wheels at the same inputs.
For users who participate in open-setup races, such as hosted races 
or leagues, tips on chassis setup can be found below.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
ARCA CARS | SETUP TIPS 
REAR RIDE HEIGHTS & REAR SPRINGS
Rear ride heights are best run in a range of heights for most 
situations. The cars will generate the most downforce when the rear 
end is between around 4.0” and 5.0” (100-127mm). Running the rear 
higher than this range will add very little downforce but a lot of drag 
and is not recommended. Running lower than this range can reduce 
drag and downforce for tracks with the highest top speeds but can 
risk damaging the underside of the car.
Choosing rear spring rates is much simpler than choosing front 
spring rates, as the rears are purely linear and each spring has its 
own specific purpose. The simplest way to approach rear springs 
is to set the Right-Rear spring for the target rear height and adjust 
the Left-Rear spring for handling and roll, with the Right-Rear spring 
generally being a few times stiffer than the Left-Rear. Generally you 
will want the stiffest Right-Rear spring spring you can handle and 
then fine-tune the dynamic height with the Perches. For the Left-
Rear, softening the spring will roll the chassis to the left and free the 
chassis up through the corner while stiffening the spring will raise 
the left side of the chassis and tighten the car through the corner.
One of the most important settings in the garage is the crossweight, 
or the percentage of the chassis’ total weight on the Right-Front 
and Left Rear as a percentage. This value is a major factor in the 
mechanical handling balance and how the car will get into and out 
of the corner. 
To adjust crossweight without introducing other issues, 
follow these steps:
• Note the current Front ARB Preload and disconnect the bar. 
Once disconnected, increase the Link Slack option to a large 
positive value, which will prevent the bar from influencing other 
adjustments while disconnected. 
 - If the bar has a large amount of preload this may cause 
 the ride heights to move into illegal ranges. This is okay, as 
 they should return to legal ranges when the bar is 
 reattached and loaded.
• Using the Spring Perch Offsets, adjust the crossweight by 
making the following changes: 
 - Increase Crossweight 
 - Right Rear - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight) 
 - Left Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, increase 
 corner weight) 
 - Left Front - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight) 
 - Right Front - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight) 
 - Decrease Crossweight 
 - Right Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight) 
 - Left Rear - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight) 
 - Left Front - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight) 
 - Right Front - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight)
CROSSWEIGHT
• If you’re new to the setup process, keep these adjustments 
to one or two clicks at a time and watch what happens to the 
chassis. If you’re comfortable with the adjustments, multiple 
clicks (Shift-Click is equal to 5 clicks) can be made as long 
as you keep track of everything that’s changing. Always pay 
attention to the ARB preload to make sure it stays at zero 
during crossweight adjustments. If it registers a value, simply 
adjust the Link Slack to remove the preload and continue with 
weight adjustments.
• Once the desired crossweight change has been made, reattach 
the ARB and preload the bar to what it was initially. Following 
these steps you should now have a change in crossweight with 
almost no change in ride heights or alignment!
For the front spring perches, users may notice these adjustments 
produce far less of a result than the rear perches, which is caused 
by the very soft front springs when the car is in the garage. In some 
cases, doubling the number of “clicks” to front perches will help keep 
everything working together.
Deciding on a crossweight adjustment is usually fairly simple, it will 
come down to how the car is behaving through the center and on 
throttle application. If the car understeers through the center or 
has too much rear traction on throttle causing understeer on exit, 
decrease the crossweight. If the car oversteers through the center 
or the rear tires spin too easily on initial throttle, increase 
the crossweight.
It is also very important to focus on crossweight adjustments 
progressively through the corner: Start with entry and work on 
the car around the corner. It’s very easy to fall into the trap where 
the rear of the car loses grip on exit and the driver wants more 
crossweight to correct that, when the root cause is understeer 
through the center of the corner. This understeer will result in the 
driver applying too much steering input and over-slipping the front 
tires, which “bite” as steering is removed through corner exit and 

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
ARCA CARS | USER MANUAL
causing the rear to lose traction. In this situation, adding crossweight 
will make the center of the corner worse and potentially make the 
car “looser” on exit. This pitfall can be avoided by looking at the tire 
temperatures screen (after a steady run without spins) and noting 
whether the temperatures show hotter on the RF than the RR tire, an 
indication that the car is understeering and the crossweight needs to 
be reduced. This will often, counter-intuitively, tighten the car on exit 
and free the car up through the center.
ARCA CARS | SETUP TIPS 
ADJUSTING FOR WEATHER AND TIME-OF-DAY
Varying weather conditions and race start times can greatly affect 
the amount of grip available from the track surface. Hotter track 
temperatures will produce less grip and often cause the car to 
oversteer, especially on throttle, while cooler tracks will increase grip 
and shift the balance towards understeer. To correct for weather 
and track temperature changes, the only adjustment needed is 
crossweight: Increase crossweight for warmer temperatures, 
decrease it for cooler temperatures.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS
Once these areas of the setup are complete you can move onto finer 
details like shocks and alignments. These settings will be dependent 
on the spring package and track characteristics, so don’t be afraid 
to test various settings to see what works for you. The Fixed setups
provided with the car are close to where the car would like to be run 
as far as heights and weight balance, but are tuned more towards 
mild understeer to make the car more approachable. Keep it simple, 
make small adjustments, and you should be able to get wherever 
you want to go!