--- PAGE 1 ---

ASTON MARTIN 
VANTAGE GT4
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 13
 Chassis Adjustments » 20
Chassis » 13 
Setup Tips » 19
Tires » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 14
 Front Corners » 15 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
SETUP TIPS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Aston Martin Vantage GT4! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Aston Martin has long used the Vantage as its entry into GT4-spec racing, putting the car through 
multiple revisions and decades worth of racing history. The current-spec GT4 made its debut in the 2019 
24 Hours of Nurburgring, where a factory-prepared entry took the SP8T class win by four laps. 
The next year, KohR Motorsports gave the Vantage GT4 its first IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge Grand 
Sport championship, as drivers Kyle Marcelli and Nate Stacy scored a weekend-sweep at Mid-Ohio. 
Vantage GT4s remain in use with many of the top GT4 programs and events around the world.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | TECH SPECS
FRONT DOUBLE WISHBONE AND 
REAR MULTI-LINK SUSPENSION.
TWIN-TURBO ALUMINUM 90 DEGREE V8
LENGTH
4520 mm
178.0 in
WIDTH
1948 mm
76.7 in
WHEELBASE
2703 mm
106.7 in
DRY WEIGHT
1283 kg
106.4 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1464 kg
3477 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
244.1 cid
TORQUE
425 lb-ft
576 Nm
POWER
460 bhp
343 kW
RPM LIMIT
7175
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, TC and ABS settings. While this is not mandatory, 
this will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and 
stability management systems to suit your driving style while 
out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction. However, 
the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if 
it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear requested. If that 
is the case, the downshift command will simply be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated. This is at approximately 6750 rpm.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, TC and ABS settings. While this is not mandatory, this 
will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and stability 
management systems to suit your driving style while out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction. However, 
the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if 
it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear requested. If that 
is the case, the downshift command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated. This is at approximately 6750 rpm.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in 
the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in 
a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to 
do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The dash display in this car is adjustable and features three selectable pages to display differing 
levels of vehicle information.
DASH PAGE 1
Lights
Left Light Stack
Left side wheel lockup indicators. The uppermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a LF lockup while the 
lowermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a LR lockup. The second and third lights in the stack will also 
flash red when the engine is stalled. 
Right Light Stack
Right side wheel lockup indicators. The uppermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a RF lockup while the 
lowermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a RR lockup. The second and third lights in the stack will also 
flash red when the engine is stalled.
Screen
Row 1 Left - Speed Road speed (km/h or mph) 
Row 1 Center Currently selected gear 
Row 1 Right - Best Lap Session best lap time as mm:ss:ms
Row 2 Left - Water Temp
Engine water temperature 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit). 
Row 2 Right - Last Lap Last lap time as mm:ss:ms
Row 3 Left - Fuel Used
Fuel used relative to a full tank 
(Liters or US Gallons)
Row 3 Right - Delta
Current lap time delta to best 
lap as ss:ms
Row 4 Left - Pit
Pit limiter indicator, illuminates 
green when the pit limiter is active
Row 4 Second from left - TC Current traction control setting
Row 4 Third from left - MAP
Current engine map setting 
(non-adjustable)
Row 4 Center - A/C
Current air conditioning setting 
(non-adjustable)
Row 4 Third from right - 
Wiper
Current windscreen wiper setting
Row 4 Second from right - 
ABS
Current ABS setting
Row 4 Right - FCY FCY indicator

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGE 2
Lights
Left Light Stack
Left side wheel lockup indicators. The uppermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a LF lockup while the 
lowermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a LR lockup. The second and third lights in the stack will also 
flash red when the engine is stalled. 
Right Light Stack
Right side wheel lockup indicators. The uppermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a RF lockup while the 
lowermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a RR lockup. The second and third lights in the stack will also 
flash red when the engine is stalled.
Screen
Row 1 Left - Oil Temp
Engine oil temperature 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 1 Center Currently selected gear 
Row 1 Right - Battery Voltage Battery voltage (Volts)
Row 2 Left - Oil Pressure Engine oil pressure (bar or psi)
Row 2 Right - Fuel Used
Fuel used relative to a full tank 
(Liters or US Gallons)
Row 3 Left - Water Temp
Engine water temperature 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Right - Gearbox Temp
Gearbox oil temperature 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 4 Left - Pit
Pit limiter indicator, illuminates 
green when the pit limiter is active
Row 4 Second from left - TC Current traction control setting
Row 4 Third from left - MAP
Current engine map setting 
(non-adjustable)
Row 4 Center - A/C
Current air conditioning setting 
(non-adjustable)
Row 4 Third from right - 
Wiper
Current windscreen wiper setting
Row 4 Second from right - 
ABS
Current ABS setting
Row 4 Right - FCY FCY indicator

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGE 3
Lights
Left Light Stack
Left side wheel lockup indicators. The uppermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a LF lockup while the 
lowermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a LR lockup. The second and third lights in the stack will also 
flash red when the engine is stalled. 
Right Light Stack
Right side wheel lockup indicators. The uppermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a RF lockup while the 
lowermost two will illuminate in blue to indicate a RR lockup. The second and third lights in the stack will also 
flash red when the engine is stalled.
Screen
Row 1 Left - Speed Road speed (km/h or mph) 
Row 1 Center Currently selected gear 
Row 1 Right - Best Lap Session best lap time as mm:ss:ms
Row 2 Left - Water Temp
Engine water temperature 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 2 Right - Last Lap Last lap time as mm:ss:ms
Row 3 Left 
Current tire pressures LF/RF top 
row, LR/RR bottom row (kPa or psi)
Row 3 Right - Lap Count
Current session lap count and 
current lap time delta to best lap 
as ss:ms
Row 4 Left - Pit
Pit limiter indicator, illuminates 
green when the pit limiter is active
Row 4 Second from left - TC Current traction control setting
Row 4 Third from left - MAP
Current engine map setting 
(non-adjustable)
Row 4 Center - A/C
Current air conditioning setting 
(non-adjustable)
Row 4 Third from right - 
Wiper
Current windscreen wiper setting
Row 4 Second from right - 
ABS
Current ABS setting
Row 4 Right - FCY FCY indicator

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | DASH PAGES
PIT SPEED LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active all shift lights will begin to flash in green, the ‘pit’ text will illuminate on the dashboard and the display 
graphics will change from yellow to green.
SHIFT LIGHTS TRACTION CONTROL
The shift lights illuminate from the left to right, indicating the driver 
should upshift when all are flashing blue. Once the RPM has passed 
the optimum shift point and is approaching the rev limiter, all lights 
will begin flashing red.
When traction control is active, all lights in the clusters affixed to the 
top of the dashboard will flash in green. 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold and hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to 
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed once the tires 
have stabilized after a period of laps. As the number of laps per 
run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is 
approximately 50% of a full fuel run. 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits, 
measured in three zones across the tread of the tire: Inside, Middle 
and Outer.. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-
track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can 
be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. Middle temperatures 
are useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while 
the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel 
alignment (predominantly camber) while on track.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as the temperatures. 

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB SETTINGS
Increasing the ARB setting shortens the ARB arm and will increase 
the roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll 
but increasing mechanical understeer. This can, in some cases, 
lead to a more responsive steering feel for the driver. Conversely, 
reducing the ARB setting lengthens the ARB arm, softening 
the suspension in roll and increasing body roll but decreasing 
mechanical understeer. This can result in a less-responsive feel 
from the steering, but grip across the front axle will increase. Along 
with this, the effects of softening or stiffening the ARB assembly in 
relation to aerodynamics should also be considered, a softer ARB 
configuration will result in more body roll which will decrease control 
of the aero platform in high speed corners and potentially lead to a 
loss in aero efficiency. Three ARB settings are available ranging from 
1 (softest) to 3 (stiffest).
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in 
will reduce the slip and increase straight-line stability.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in 
more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DASH DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. Three options are 
available as previously described in the dash configuration section of 
this manual. 
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but allow the least modulation. 
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is using. Twelve positions are available: 
Position 1 has the least intervention/support, position 11 has the 
most support, and position 0 disables the ABS completely. Position 
7 is the recommended baseline setting. More intervention reduces 
the possibility of and the duration of lockups during braking but 
can result in longer braking distances if the system is set overly 
aggressive for the amount of available grip.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ECU cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. Twelve positions are available: Settings 1-11 range from least 
intervention/sensitivity (position 1) to the highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 11) while position 0 disables the traction control 
completely. Position 1 is the recommended baseline setting. More 
intervention will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but 
can reduce overall performance if the traction control is cutting 
engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration. 

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to a reference point on the chassis. 
Since these values are measured to a specific reference point 
on the car these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s 
ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the 
height of the car off of the race track under static conditions. 
Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they 
can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as 
well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. 
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control. However overly 
stiff springs will result in increased tire load variation which will 
manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of 
stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch 
control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when 
altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to 
rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted 
to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring 
rate change.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car. 
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of the 
damper. For the Vantage GT4, setting “0” is minimum damping (least 
resistance to compression) while “25” is maximum damping (most 
resistance to compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result 
in faster weight transfer to the wheel during transient movements, 
such as braking and direction change, with increased damping 
usually providing an increase in turn-in response but a reduction in 
overall grip in the context of front dampers. High speed compression 
damping will increase proportionally to the increase in low speed 
compression damping which will also result in harsher response 
to kerb strikes. At smoother tracks more bump stiffness will 
typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with 
aggressive kerbs less compression damping can result in an increase 
in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both 
low and high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing 
rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the damper 
extends in both low and high speed situations. A typical low damper 
speed situation would be as the car rolls back to level on a corner 
exit while a high speed situation would be where the suspension is 
extending after large kerb contact. Setting “0” is minimum damping 
(least resistance to extension) while “18” is maximum damping (most 
resistance to extension). While high rebound stiffness will result in 
improved platform control for aerodynamic performance and overall 
chassis response it is important to avoid situations where the shock 
is too slow in rebounding as this will result in the tire losing complete 
contact with the track surface which can induce or exacerbate 
severe oscillations. 
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Increasing front camber values 
will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to high 
speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and 
necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well as 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. Spring perch offsets must 
be adjusted to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any 
spring rate change.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing the compression damping will result in faster weight 
transfer to the wheel during transient movements, such as 
accelerating and direction change, with increased damping usually 
providing an increase in response but a reduction in overall grip 
especially at corner exit traction in the context of rear dampers. 
Excessively stiff compression damping can cause very poor traction 
on rough tracks as it can result in large tire load variation and a 
reduction in overall grip. 
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. High rebound stiffness will result 
in improved platform control for aerodynamic performance and 
overall chassis response but it is important to avoid situations where 
the shock is too slow in rebounding as this will result in the tire losing 
complete contact with the track surface. This can be particularly 
detrimental during braking events and during the initial turn-in phase 
though an increase in rebound stiffness can help to “slow down” 
the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are applied, potentially 
increasing braking stability. 

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
REAR
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. 
Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and 
a reduction in response during direction changes. Large values of 
toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag 
and reduce straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes 
remember that the values are for each individual wheel as opposed 
to paired as at the front. This means that individual values on the 
rear wheels are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment 
at the front of the car when the rear toes are summed together. 
Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal to 
prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily 
asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in 
performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and 
other setup parameters. 
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank.
ARB SETTING
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll stiffness 
of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing 
mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the car to “take a 
set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing the ARB 
assembly stiffness will soften the suspension in roll, increasing 
body roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer. This can result in a 
less-responsive feel from the rear especially in transient movements, 
but grip across the rear axle will increase. Three ARB settings are 
available ranging from 1 ‘soft’ to 3 ‘stiff’.
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT4 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
In the iRacing Setup folder you will find several default setups to 
choose from:
Baseline - 50% fuel level, the default setup when first loading the 
car, intentionally conservative to allow you to acclimatize to a new 
car or track.
Baseline_wet - 50% fuel level, the default setup for a wet track with 
wet tires fitted and driver aids adjusted for wet conditions.
Endurance - 100% fuel level, intended for most tracks where optimal 
wing angles will be in the 3-5 range and race lengths are at, or over, 
one hour in length.
Endurance Low Downforce - 100% fuel level, intended for tracks 
where straight-line performance is a priority (Daytona, Le Mans, etc.) 
and a low wing angle is required. Fueled for race lengths at, or over, 
one hour in length.
Sprint_Open - 56% fuel level, intended for most tracks in the Open 
Setup series where optimal wing angles are in the 3-5 range.
Sprint_Open_Low_Downforce - 56% fuel level, intended for tracks in 
the Open Setup series where straight-line performance is a priority 
and optimal wing angles are low.
Sprint_Fixed - 50% fuel level, intended for short sprint races and the 
setup used for the Fixed Setup series.
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you choose to make your own adjustments the easiest way 
to change the balance of the car is through the Anti-Roll Bars or the 
Wing setting:
Stiffer front ARB - More understeer
Stiffer rear ARB - More oversteer
Lower wing setting - More oversteer, less downforce, and higher 
 straight-line speed.
Higher wing setting - More understeer, more downforce, and lower 
 straight-line speed.
In the event a setup fails tech inspection after fuel level or other 
changes it is likely the ride heights require adjustment. This is 
performed by using the Spring Perch Offset adjustments at either 
end of the car: Right-clicks (positive) will reduce the ride height, left-
clicks (negative) will increase the ride height.