--- PAGE 1 ---

1
ASTON MARTIN 
VANTAGE GT3 EVO
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 10
 Front, Brakes, Lights » 12
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 22
 Chassis Adjustments » 23
 Differential Adjustments » 23
Chassis » 12
Setup Tips » 20
 Aero Balance Calculator » 11
Tires & Aero » 10 
 In-Car Adjustments » 13
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear » 16
 Rear Corners » 15
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
SETUP TIPS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 18
 Gears / Differential » 17

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Aston Martin Vantage GT3 EVO! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | TECH SPECS
SHORT-LONG ARM DOUBLE WISHBONE 
FRONT & REAR, OUTBOARD COILOVER 
SPRINGS AND DAMPERS
TWIN-TURBOCHARGED 4.0L DOHC V8
LENGTH
4547 mm
179 in
WIDTH
2050 mm
80.7 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
244 CID
TORQUE
472 lb-ft
640 Nm
RPM LIMIT
7000 RPM 
POWER
535 bhp
399 kW
WHEELBASE
2769 mm
109 in
DRY WEIGHT
1330 kg
2932 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1491 kg
3286 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary, but the clutch isn’t required once the vehicle 
is in motion for upshifts or downshifts. To upshift, simply let off 
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
the throttle and select the next higher gear. To downshift, give the 
throttle a blip while selecting the next lower gear. If you downshift 
too early, or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and 
engine speed will be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear 
and a possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and 
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number 

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The digital display in the Aston Martin Vantage GT3 EVO is a single-page display with all information displayed in an 
easy-to-read format. The display can change display styles in various situations, such as previous lap time display and 
pit speed limiter.
Left Side
Fuel Used The volume of fuel used since leaving the pits in liters or gallons
Fuel Lap The volume of fuel used in the previous lap in liters or gallons
Speed Current vehicle speed in kph or mph
Lap Count Laps completed in the current session
Water Temp Engine coolant water temperature in °C or °F
Oil Temp Engine oil temperature in °C or °F
Center
Gear A large gear indicator is in the center of the display
TC Slip Current Traction Control setting
Red Current Throttle Response setting
Wiper Indicates whether the wiper is on
A/C Inoperative
PAS Current Power Steering setting (EPAS)
Green Turbo wastegate control, not adjustable in sim, locked to 6
ABS Current ABS setting
TC Pro A TC control not currently used in sim, the output is bound to TC Slip
Right Side
Last Lap Previously completed lap time
B Bias Brake bias setting
Delta Current time delta against the session-best lap
Tire Pressures
Tire pressures are shown with a colored background referenced against their optimum pressure. A red 
background indicates the pressure is far too low, orange indicates just under target pressure, green indicates 
the tires are at optimum pressure.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
LAP TIME MODE
PIT LIMITER MODE
After the completion of a lap, the display will fill three sections with purple and “freeze” to display the previously completed lap time to the 
driver on the right of the display. This clears after several seconds.
When the Pit Limiter is activated the display will change to assist with reaching and maintaining the pit road speed limit. This is accompanied 
by the shift lights flashing in green and the side-mounted LEDs illuminating in a color based on the vehicle speed to match the screen’s color. 
With all pit road speed limit screens, the middle-left cluster is replaced with a large speed display.
If the vehicle’s speed is higher than the pit road speed limit, the 
display will change to orange with the side LEDs flashing orange.
If the vehicle speed drops too low, the screen will change to white.
When the vehicle is traveling at the pit road speed limit, the screen 
and side LEDs will be green.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of 
the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the 
rear wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to 
note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here 
DO NOT result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, 
changes to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car. This 
calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height. 
REAR RH AT SPEED
Like the Front RH at Speed setting, the Rear RH at Speed is a 
reference for aerodynamic calculations. Determine the car’s Rear 
Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value 
into the “Front RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average 
value of the LR and RR ride heights as this will provide a more 
accurate representation of the current aero platform rather than 
using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
REAR WING ANGLE
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car as 
well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
higher settings. Increasing the rear wing setting results in more total 
cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but will 
also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing setting 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.
The Rear Wing Angle value in the Aero Calculator section is tied 
directly to the Wing Setting in the Chassis page’s Rear section. 
Changing one will automatically change the other.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT, BRAKES, LIGHTS
ARB BLADES
The Anti Roll Bar blades (or arms) can be adjusted to fine tune the 
suspension roll stiffness. This option changes the orientation of the 
ARB blades and are given numerical values for simplicity, with 8 
being the softest option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value 
is decreased to 1. Clicking the right arrow (>) increases stiffness. 
Stiffer blade settings will increase front roll stiffness and induce 
understeer while softer blade settings will reduce front roll stiffness 
and reduce understeer.
Please note that the roll bar positions are inverted front to rear. The 
total sum of the Front and Rear ARB blade positions is a metric for 
the mechanical balance contribution of the ARBs as a system. A 
small sum (1 FARB + 1 RARB = 2) indicates understeer or more rear 
grip, a large sum (8 FARB + 8 RARB = 16) will produce oversteer and 
have more front grip.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out (negative 
value) will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease straight-
line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and increase 
straight-line stability.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but allow the least modulation.
ENDURANCE LIGHTS
An auxiliary light bar may be installed for night racing to improve 
driver visibility. Installing this will not affect vehicle performance.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR ADJUSTMENTS
NIGHT LED STRIP COLOR
Changes the color of the light strip across the top of the windshield. 
This helps to quickly identify the car during a night session. Seven 
options are available: Off, Purple, Red, Yellow, Orange, Green 
and Blue. None of these settings has any influence on the 
car’s performance.
CENTER FRONT SPLITTER HEIGHT
The height of the lowest point of the splitter forward of the front 
axle centerline. This value must be above 50mm (1.97in) to pass 
tech inspection.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
ABS SETTING
The current Antilock Brake System map the car is using. Twelve 
positions are available: Position 1 has the least intervention/support, 
position 11 has the most support, and position 0 disables the ABS 
completely. Position 3 is the recommended baseline setting. More 
intervention reduces the possibility of and the duration of lockups 
during braking but can result in longer braking distances if the 
system is set overly aggressive for the amount of available grip. 
Positions 1-6 should be used in Dry conditions while 7-11 should 
be reserved for Wet conditions.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the Traction Control switch determines how 
aggressively the ECU cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
slip. Twelve positions are available: Settings 1-11 range from least 
intervention/sensitivity (position 1) to the highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 11) while position 0 disables the traction control 
completely. Positions 1-6 are for dry conditions while 7-11 should 
be used for Wet conditions. More intervention will result in less 
wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance 
if the traction control is cutting engine torque too aggressively and 
stunting corner exit acceleration.
RED ROTARY
The Red Rotary setting controls the torque response from the 
turbocharger anti-lag system. Setting 1 will result in the most turbo 
lag and delay to peak torque, while Setting 5 is the most aggressive 
anti-lag setting and the shortest time to peak torque.
EPAS SETTING
EPAS is the Electronic Power Assisted Steering, featuring multiple 
settings for driver preference. Setting 1 is the least power steering 
assistance, producing a heavier steering feel, while Setting 5 is the 
most assistance and the lightest steering feel.
%F WTDIST
The vehicle’s Front Weight Distribution is the percentage of total 
vehicle weight on the front tires. This represents the longitudinal 
Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has a direct influence 
on the high-speed stability of the vehicle and low-speed handling 
balance. Higher Nose Weight values result in a more directionally-
stable vehicle, good for low-grip tracks and situations where the 
vehicle is set up with extra front downforce. Conversely, lower 
distribution values are good for high-grip tracks and configurations 
with high rear downforce levels. This is not directly adjustable but 
varies with fuel load (the fuel cell is behind the driver in this car).

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual corner 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made by 
adjusting the ride heights for each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom surface of the car’s floor at 
the rear axle centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease 
rear downforce as well as increase overall downforce and will allow 
for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase rear downforce 
percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the 
weight transfer across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical 
tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance 
considerations and static rear ride heights should be considered and 
matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance.
Maximum downforce is between 66 and 70 mm (2.60” & 1.76”) 
dynamic rear ride height. Minimum drag is from 15 - 20 mm 
(0.59” - 0.79”) RRH on track.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension. Engaging the bump rubbers on the rear can 
keep the chassis off the track in high-load situations to keep the car 
from bottoming out on the track, like Daytona’s oval banking, but due 
to the increased stiffness it can make the car more difficult to control 
when cornering or during throttle application.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. In most cases, a spring 
rate change should return the car to its previous ride height in 
the Garage.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
X WT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners, also known as Cross Weight. A 
setting of 50.0% is generally optimal for non-oval tracks as this will 
produce symmetrical handling in both left and right hand corners 
providing all other chassis settings are symmetrical. Higher than 
50% cross weight will result in more understeer in left hand corners 
and increased oversteer in right hand corners. Cross weight can 
be adjusted by making changes to the spring perch offsets at each 
corner of the car.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual corner 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made by 
adjusting the ride heights for each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom surface of the car’s floor at 
the rear axle centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease 
rear downforce as well as increase overall downforce and will allow 
for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase rear downforce 
percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the 
weight transfer across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical 
tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance 
considerations and static rear ride heights should be considered and 
matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance.
Maximum downforce is between 66 and 70 mm (2.60” & 1.76”) 
dynamic rear ride height. Minimum drag is from 15 - 20 mm (0.59” - 
0.79”) RRH on track. 
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension. Engaging the bump rubbers on the rear can 
keep the chassis off the track in high-load situations to keep the car 
from bottoming out on the track, like Daytona’s oval banking, but due 
to the increased stiffness it can make the car more difficult to control 
when cornering or during throttle application.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. In most cases, a spring 
rate change should return the car to its previous ride height in 
the Garage.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that 
the values are for each individual wheel as opposed to combined as 
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded 
into the world.
ARB BLADES
The Anti Roll Bar blades (or arms) can be changed to fine tune the 
suspension roll stiffness. This option changes the orientation of 
the ARB blades and are given numerical values for simplicity, with 1 
being the softest option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value 
is increased to the maximum setting of 8. Clicking the right arrow 
(>) increases stiffness. Stiffer blade settings will increase rear roll 
stiffness and induce oversteer while softer blade settings will reduce 
rear roll stiffness and reduce oversteer.
Please note that the roll bar positions are inverted front to rear. The 
total sum of the Front and Rear ARB blade positions is a metric for 
the mechanical balance contribution of the ARBs as a system. A 
small sum (1 FARB + 1 RARB = 2) indicates understeer or more rear 
grip, a large sum (8 FARB + 8 RARB = 16) will produce oversteer and 
have more front grip.
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the 
rear wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle. To maintain aero balance, for every 1 degree of rear 
wing angle added: lower the FRH 1.5 mm (0.060”) OR raise the RRH 
4.0 mm (0.157”). These sensitivities do not necessarily apply across 
the whole RWA adjustment range or the full RH ranges. Use the 
Aero Balance Calculator tool in the Garage on the TIRES/AERO tab 
for more precise values.
at the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels 
are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of 
the car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it 
is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal to prevent 
crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily 
asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in 
performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe 
and other setup parameters.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the forward gear ratios in the transmission. 
There are two gear stacks available. FIA should be used at the 
majority of tracks. LeMans may be chosen at some high-speed 
tracks when very low rear wing angles are used.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treated as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces.
DIFFERENTIAL PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
The 4-way dampers in this simulation model are based on the 
force / velocity curves used in the real car which were provided to 
iRacing. The adjustment range is large. It is possible to have too 
much damping, this will result in excessive chassis control but also 
too much tire contact patch force variation (low grip). It is also 
possible to set the dampers to be too soft, this will result in the 
most mechanical grip but poor chassis control. Avoid setting all the 
adjusters at the extreme ends of their ranges.
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low speed compression (LSC) affects how resistant the shock is 
to compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. This 
adjustment is a bleed screw where 0 clicks from closed is maximum 
damping (most resistance to compression) and 18 clicks is minimum 
damping (least resistance to compression). Increasing the low speed 
compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to the 
front or rear of the car during transient movements such as braking 
and direction change with increased damping usually increasing the 
cars tendency to understeer on throttle application.
On the front end of the car, increasing LSC will induce understeer 
under braking and whenever the front suspension is compressing. 
On the rear, more LSC can increase traction on throttle and when 
the rear suspension is in compression, which can be perceived as 
understeer in extreme cases.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION
High speed compression (HSC) affects the shock’s behavior at 
faster damper shaft speeds, usually attributed to curb strikes and 
bumps in the track’s surface. The 0 setting is maximum damping 
and 18 is the minimum. More high speed compression will cause 
the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while less HSC will 
allow the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. HSC is important for proper 
roll, pitch & heave control of the chassis. 
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low speed rebound (LSR) damping controls the stiffness of 
the shock while extending at lower damper shaft speeds, typically 
during body movement as a result of driver inputs. This adjustment 
is a bleed screw where 0 clicks from closed is maximum damping 
and 18 clicks is minimum damping. Higher rebound values will resist 
expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound stiffness will result in improved platform 
control for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response 
but can result in the tire losing complete contact with the track 
surface if the suspension can’t extend fast enough with 
reduced loads. 
On the front end, higher LSR settings will hold the front of the car 
down longer during acceleration but can induce understeer on 
throttle application or over crests. On the rear of the car, more LSR 
will stabilize the car under braking but can induce understeer if set 
too aggressively.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound (HSR) controls the shock in extension after 
bumps and curb strikes. The 0 setting is maximum damping and 18 
is the minimum. Higher forces will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
quickly. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in 
response to driver inputs, HSR is important for proper chassis 
aerodynamic response to circuit inputs.
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
Baseline is a stable, maximum downforce setup that is intended as 
an introduction to the car. As such, this setup should always pass 
tech inspection at every fuel load and track (Except Nürburgring 
Nordschleife configurations where ‘nuburgring_sprint/endurance’ 
should be used) but will not provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition. 
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series and 
is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations. 
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial.
If a track doesn’t have a setup it is recommended to start out 
with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating the other 
downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track may benefit 
from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum speed reached. 
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +10.5
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 35.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 70.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +0.5
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1.5 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +4.5 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +1.5 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -4.5 mm
These adjustment sensitivities are not the same in all parts of the 
aeromap nor are they valid for all rear wing angles. For this reason, it 
is strongly suggested that one use the Aero Balance Calc tool on the 
Tires/Aero tab: 
• Start with a setup that is known to have good high 
speed aero balance. 
• Note the % Front Downforce and dynamic RHs at speed.
• Add or subtract Rear Wing Angle for the desired overall 
downforce change
• Adjust the Rear RH at speed until the target % Front Downforce 
value is reached
• Apply the difference in dynamic Rear RH needed to retain balance 
to the static Rear RHs on the Chassis tab. 
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ASTON MARTIN VANTAGE GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Two adjustment options are available for the differential. 
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on 
throttle oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces 
and kerb strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, less 
off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.