--- PAGE 1 ---

1
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
Dash Pages » 7 
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 11
 Front » 12
Chassis » 12
Tires » 11 
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear Corners » 16
 Rear » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Chassis Adjustments » 20
 Rear Alignment » 20
 Aerodynamic Adjustments » 19
Setup Tips » 18
SETUP TIPS
 Brake System Settings » 19

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Audi RS 3 LMS! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Touring car racing has exploded in popularity around the world over the past few years, and the Audi RS 3 
LMS has proven to be one of the most popular cars. Utilized by drivers on four continents, the RS 3 LMS 
found success quickly after its debut and was voted “Model of the Year 2018” among vehicles 
from 12 manufacturers.
Light and quick, the Audi RS 3 LMS produces up to 350 horsepower from its turbocharged two-liter 
powerplant. Sequential shifting and a quick 0-60 time mean that this front-wheel drive touring car 
produces plenty of exciting action, no matter where or when it’s racing.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | TECH SPECS
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
FRONT-ENGINE, FRONT-WHEEL DRIVE 
WITH FRONT MCPHERSON STRUT & 
REAR MULTILINK SUSPENSION
TRANSVERSEL Y MOUNTED 
IN-LINE 4 CYLINDER
LENGTH
4,589mm
180.6in
WIDTH
1,950mm
76.8in
DISPLACEMENT
2.0 Liters
122CID
TORQUE
310lb-ft
420Nm
RPM LIMIT
6800RPM
 
POWER
350bhp
257kW
WHEELBASE
2,665mm
104.5in
DRY WEIGHT
1397kg
3080lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1470kg
3240lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias adjustment. While this is not mandatory, this will allow you to 
make quick changes to the brake bias to suit your driving style while 
on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction. However, 
the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if it 
feels you are traveling too fast for the gear requested. If that is the 
case, the downshift command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when all shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup <baseline.sto>. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs. 
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | INTRODUCTION
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
There are two selectable dash pages in the Audi RS3 LMS, with both dash pages using the same LED configuration. 
Eight LEDs are on the left and right of the dash display and numbered individually.
DASH 1
Upper Row
Gear The currently selected gear is shown in the center of the display
Current Speed The car’s speed (kph or mph) is displayed at the upper center of the display
Tachometer The Engine RPM is shown in the top right of the display
Middle Row
Lap The current lap is shown in the center of the display
+- Best Time The time delta between the current and best lap
Bottom Row
Fuel Fuel quantity remaining in the tank in Gallons or Liters
T_Water Engine water temperature in °C or °F
Start RPM Current setting for the Launch Control’s RPM Limiter
LED ALARMS
LED 1 + LED 5 - Slow Blinking Red: Pit Limiter is active.
LED 1 + LED 5 - Fast Blinking Yellow: Low Fuel
LED 1 - Fast Blinking Red: Low Oil Pressure
LED 5 - Fast Blinking Red: High water Temperature

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | DASH PAGES
DASH 2
Upper Row
Gear The currently selected gear is shown in the center of the display
Current Speed The car’s speed (kph or mph) is displayed at the upper center of the display
Tachometer The Engine RPM is shown in the top right of the display
Middle Row
T_Water Engine water temperature in °C or °F
Lap The current lap is shown in the center of the display
Laptime Time elapsed on the current lap
Bottom Row
Fuel Fuel quantity remaining in the tank in Gallons or Liters
P_Fuel Fuel Pressure
POS_GBOX Selected Gear
POS_DIFF Current differential setting (not applicable in sim)
V_FCY Full Course Yellow Speed Limiter Speed
V_PIT Pit Lane Limiter Speed
LED ALARMS
LED 1 + LED 5 - Slow Blinking Red: Pit Limiter is active.
LED 1 + LED 5 - Fast Blinking Yellow: Low Fuel
LED 1 - Fast Blinking Red: Low Oil Pressure
LED 5 - Fast Blinking Red: High water Temperature

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
From left to right the lights become lit at the following RPM:
1- 5350 
2 - 5500
3 - 5700
4 - 5900
5 - 6050
6 - 6200
7 - 6300
8 - 6350
9 - 6400
10 - 6500 
At 6700 RPM a pop-up alarm will appear on the dash 
display reading “SHIFT”.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold and hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to 
TIRES
TIRE SETTINGS
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed once the tires 
have stabilized after a period of laps. As the number of laps per 
run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is 
approximately 50% of a full fuel run. 
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car 
has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a 
tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and 
these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
These values are measured in three zones across the tread of the 
tire: Inside, Middle and Outer. Middle temperatures are useful for 
directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and 
Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) after returning from the track.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as the temperatures. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT 
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage across the 
front axle. Higher Nose Weight values will induce understeer when 
cornering and promote straight-line stability, while lower Nose 
Weight values will increase oversteer while cornering. This is not 
directly adjustable and is altered by other adjustments, such as 
Fuel Level.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage situated on 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car. 
ANTI-ROLL BAR WALL THICKNESS
The front Anti-Roll Bar is a hollow tube instead of a solid bar, 
and changing the thickness of the tube wall will change the bar’s 
stiffness. A thicker wall will increase bar stiffness, stiffening the front 
suspension in roll, while a thinner wall will decrease bar stiffness, 
softening the front suspension in roll. Generally a stiffer front bar will 
induce understeer while a softer front bar will reduce understeer. 
At high speeds a stiffer front bar will better maintain the car’s roll 
attitude, which can help maintain a constant level of downforce in 
high-speed corners. A softer bar will result in higher roll angles but 
will increase mechanical grip in slower corners.
ANTI-ROLL BAR BLADE LENGTH
To fine-tune the front Anti-Roll Bar’s stiffness the length of the arms 
can be changed. Shorter arms will slightly increase the effective 
stiffness of the bar and longer arms will decrease the effective 
stiffness. This works in the same way the Wall Thickness adjustment 
does, with stiffer settings inducing understeer and softer settings 
reducing understeer.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in 
will reduce the slip and increase straight-line stability.
ABS SETTING
The Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) can be turned on or off through 
this setting. Setting 1 will enable ABS while Setting 0 will disable 
ABS. This value can be adjusted via the F8 Black Box.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake lines relative to the rear brake lines which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tires but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. This 
value can be adjusted via the F8 Black Box.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
REAR BRAKE VALVE
The Rear Brake Valve setting can be used to increase or decrease 
the braking force going to the rear brakes without reducing the force 
going to the front brakes (This is counter to the Brake Pressure 
Bias setting which reduces front brake force when increasing rear 
brake force). Increasing the rear brake valve setting will increase the 
braking force on the rear wheels while a lower setting will decrease 
the force to the rear wheels. This value can be adjusted via the F8 
Black Box.
HANDBRAKE RATIO
The Handbrake Ratio setting changes how aggressively the 
handbrake is applied. Larger ratios will apply a more aggressive 
force, making it easier to lock the rear wheels when the handbrake is 
applied, while a lower ratio will not lock the wheels as easily.
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LAUNCH RPM LIMIT
When launching the car from a standstill, either at the race start 
or from the pits, the Launch RPM Limit will set the rev limiter to 
whatever this setting is set to until the car is rolling. This will help 
to keep wheelspin to a minimum and can be set higher or lower 
depending on track surface grip levels to get an optimum launch. 
This value can be adjusted via the F8 Black Box.
DASH DISPLAY PAGE
The default page displayed on the vehicle’s dash can be set in the 
garage. This value can be adjusted via the F8 Black Box.
SPLITTER HEIGHT
The front splitter ground clearance is shown in the garage. This is 
not directly adjustable but will change based on other settings in the 
garage. There are no tech-inspection checks on this value and it only 
serves as a reference for the car’s attitude under static conditions.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as 
decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle. 
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corners of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car. 
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer 
springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however, they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. The drawbacks of stiffer springs will become 
more pronounced on rougher tracks where softer springs will 
result in increased overall performance. Corner spring changes will 
influence both roll and pitch control of the platform and ARB changes 
should be considered when altering corner spring stiffnesses in 
order to retain the same front to rear roll stiffness and handling 
balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness the ARB stiffness 
should be increased to retain the same roll stiffness as before the 
spring change. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the 
car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of the 
damper. Increasing the compression damping will result in faster 
weight transfer to the front of the car during transient movements 
such as braking and quick direction changes. High front bump 
settings can help maintain a more consistent aerodynamic attitude 
and feel more mechanically responsive, but can cause a loss of front 
traction on rougher tracks due to large amounts of tire load variation.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. As with the front of the car, 
high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control for 
aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response. However, 
it is important to avoid settings where the shock is too slow in 
rebounding as this will result in the tire losing contact with the track 
surface. This can be particularly detrimental during braking events 
and during the initial turn-in phase when the rear tires are under 
relatively low load.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
REBOUND STIFFNESS CONT.
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both 
low and high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing 
rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the damper 
extends in both low and high speed situations as load is removed 
from the suspension. A typical low speed situation would be as the 
car rolls back to level on a corner exit while a high speed situation 
would be where the suspension is extending after large kerb contact. 
Setting 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension) while 
10 is maximum damping (most resistance to extension). While 
high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control 
for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response it is 
important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebound 
as this will result in the tire losing complete contact with the track 
surface which can induce or exacerbate severe oscillations. 
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce but will 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance, and static rear ride heights should be 
considered and matched to the chosen rear corner springs for 
optimal performance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corners of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car. 
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low loads and will produce better 
aerodynamic performance through improved platform control at the 
expense of mechanical grip. Spring stiffness should be matched to 
the needs of the racetrack and set such that the handling balance 
is consistent between high and low speed cornering. Increasing rear 
spring rate will allow for a lower static rear height which will reduce 
rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering while maintaining 
or even increasing the rear ride height in high speed cornering to 
shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and reduce understeer. 
Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior 
static ride heights after any spring rate change.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing the compression damping will result in faster weight 
transfer to the rear of the car during transient movements such as 
accelerating and quick direction changes. High rear bump settings 
can help maintain a more consistent aerodynamic attitude, but can 
cause a loss of rear grip on rougher tracks due to large amounts of 
tire load variation.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. As with the front of the car, 
high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control for 
aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response. However, 
it is important to avoid settings where the shock is too slow in 
rebounding as this will result in the tire losing contact with the track 
surface. This can be particularly detrimental during braking events 
and during the initial turn-in phase when the rear tires are under 
relatively low load.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability. 
Since the rear wheels are not driven and are typically under less load 
than the fronts, the rear tires will usually see better performance 
with less camber than the front tires. More rear camber will increase 
cornering forces from the tires as increasing wear and heat buildup, 
but will decrease maximum braking capacity from the tires.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Tank capacity is 100 L (26.4 gal), 
adjustable in 1 L (0.26 g) increments.
ANTI-ROLL BAR BLADE LENGTH 
To fine-tune the rear Anti-Roll Bar’s stiffness the length of the arms 
can be changed. Shorter arms will slightly increase the effective 
stiffness of the bar and longer arms will decrease the effective 
stiffness. This works in the same way the Wall Thickness adjustment 
does, with stiffer settings inducing oversteer and softer settings 
reducing oversteer.
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increased toe-in 
will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in 
response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds.
REAR WING SETTING 
The rear wing’s angle of attack can be changed via the Rear 
Wing Setting. Higher angles will cause the wing to produce more 
downforce and shift aero balance rearward, inducing understeer in 
mid- to high-speed corners, but will increase drag. Lower angles will 
reduce the amount of downforce generated and shift aero balance 
forward, increasing oversteer in mid- and high-speed corners, but 
will also reduce the amount of drag produced by the wing. Angle 
settings are available from -4.0° to +4.0° , however it is important to 
note that all angles will produce downforce, and negative angles do 
not produce lift.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
The following iRacing setups are provided in the iRacing 
setups folder:
Baseline - 50L fuel with conservative handling characteristics for 
your first time in the car.
Baseline Wet - 50L fuel with setup adjustments and wet tires fitted 
for wet weather conditions.
Fixed - 25L fuel for the 15 minute official fixed sprint series.
Fixed Nordschleife - 38L fuel for the longer fixed race 
at Nürburgring.
Medium Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for a variety of tracks.
Low Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for tracks like Daytona or Le Mans 
where minimizing drag is important.
High Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for tighter, twisty tracks where high 
levels of downforce (and possibly less rotation) is preferred.
Endurance - Full fuel for long endurance races with a medium 
downforce trim.
BRAKE SYSTEM SETTINGS
AERODYNAMIC ADJUSTMENTS
This car has a Brake Bias Adjuster to change the pressure balance 
between the front and rear brake lines.
The Audi RS3 LMS also has a Rear Brake Pressure Limiter 
(Proportioning Valve), which reduces the amount of pressure going 
to the rear brakes (it has no effect on front line pressure) for a given 
pedal force input. It also allows the effective brake bias (% Front line 
pressure) to move forward in heavy braking conditions. Since front 
wheel drive cars do not have much static load on the rear tires, 
hard braking can result in lightly-loaded rear tires. A properly 
adjusted Proportioning Valve can keep the rear tires from locking 
in these situations.
The easiest way to make changes to the handling is to adjust the 
rear wing setting. A higher angle (more positive) wing setting is a 
more rearward aero balance (understeer) as well as more drag. A 
wing setting of -2 is a reasonable place to start if you are unsure of 
a reasonable wing trim for any given track. You may find you want 
more rotation (less wing) or less rotation (more wing) from there.
 Higher Wing (More Positive) = Less Rotation / More 
 Downforce and Drag
 Lower Wing (More Negative) = More Rotation / Less 
 Downforce and Drag
Higher Prop Valve settings allow more rear brake line pressure and 
stopping power but risk locking the rear brakes. Each Prop Valve 
adjustment down from the maximum increases the effective % Front 
line pressure by about 1%. The lowest Prop Valve setting limits rear 
brake line pressure the most, this forces the front brakes to do the 
most work and will increase stopping distances.
Set your Brake Bias Adjuster first and tune it for low and medium 
pedal force situations, then set the Proportioning Valve next as a 
way to fine-tune high pedal force braking.
Lower Brake Valve Setting = Higher effective brake bias during 
heavy brake situations.
Higher Brake Valve Setting = Lower effective brake bias during 
heavy brake situations.
If you find you wish to change the aero balance of the car without 
changing your downforce trim (wing setting), you can adjust the 
rake of the vehicle with the spring perch adjustments on each 
corner of the car. More rake (higher rear, lower front) will move aero 
balance forward (more rotation) and less rake (lower rear, higher 
front) will more aero balance rearward (less rotation). It is worth 
noting that keeping the splitter (front) height low is important for 
making downforce and aero efficiency. It is recommended that when 
adjusting rake you adjust rear heights while keeping front heights at 
minimum for all but the most extreme of situations.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | USER MANUAL
AUDI RS3 LMS TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
It is also possible to affect the dynamic aero balance with front and 
rear spring selection. A softer spring at front or rear will allow more 
deflection under load which will let that end of the car travel more 
(lower ride heights) while a stiffer spring will hold up that end of the 
car more under the same load. You can affect the rake of the car 
while on track with these adjustments.
More Rake (Higher Rear vs Front) = More Rotation
Less Rake (Lower Rear vs Front) = Less Rotation
If you would like to change the mechanical balance without changing 
the aero balance the front and rear ARBs and ARB arms may be 
adjusted.
Bigger Front ARB/Shorter ARB Arms = Less rotation
Smaller Front ARB/Longer ARB Arms = More rotation
Bigger Rear ARB/Shorter ARB Arms = More rotation
Smaller Rear ARB/Longer ARB Arms = Less rotation
REAR ALIGNMENT
It is expected you may wish to run some amount of rear toe out to 
increase rotation and drive off in this front wheel drive car. More toe 
out (negative) will result in more rotation on entry and mid corner. 
You may find less toe out (more positive) may suit your driving style 
or keep rotation more consistent for your driving, setup, or track 
conditions. Some experimentation is encouraged here! This can be 
a powerful adjustment!