--- PAGE 1 ---

1
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tires » 10
 Front » 12
Chassis » 12
 Aero Balance Calculator » 11
Tires & Aero » 10 
 In-Car Dials » 13
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear » 16
 Left / Right Rear » 15
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 17
 Gears / Differential » 16
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 20
 Chassis Adjustments » 20
 Differential Adjustments » 21
Setup Tips » 19
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Audi R8 LMS EVO II GT3! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
yoursupport and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | TECH SPECS
INDEPENDENT DOUBLE WISHBONE 
SUSPENSION FRONT AND REAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED V10 ENGINE
LENGTH
4599 mm
181 in
WIDTH
1997 mm
78.62 in
DISPLACEMENT
5.2 Liters
317 CID
TORQUE
410 lb-ft
556 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8500 RPM 
POWER
518 bhp
386 kW
WHEELBASE
2700 mm
106.3 in
DRY WEIGHT
1320 kg
2910 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1479 kg
3260 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshift when the final red light in the 10-LED sequence 
is illuminated.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click 
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track 
of choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may 
load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting 
the setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Bosch DDU S2 Plus display in the Audi R8 LMS EVO II GT3 has two display page options. Both pages are identical 
in the information displayed, however colors are inverted to help with driver vision for varying conditions.
Top Group
Tire Pressures
All four tire pressures (bar or psi) are displayed in the upper-left corner of the display. When the tires are 
under-inflated these blocks will be shown in red but these will change to the default background color when 
they are in an optimum range.
Gear The currently-selected gear is shown in the center of the top cluster of data
TC Lat Current TC system setting
TC Long Current TC system setting
ABS Current ABS system setting. (ABS front and rear relative intervention - currently locked to 100% for both)
Tire Temps The average tire temperature for each of the four tires is shown in a block below the ABS values.
Lower Group
Lap TIme Current lap time
Lap Number of laps completed since leaving the garage
Diff Current split time, compared against the best lap of the session
TGear Gearbox oil temperature
TOil Engine oil temperature
TMot Engine coolant or water temperature
Fuel Lap Fuel used this lap (Liters or US Gallons)
Fuel Used Fuel used this stint (Liters or US Gallons)
Center Row
RPM Engine RPM is displayed on the left side in the center row
Brakebal Current Brake Bias setting (%Front brake line pressure)
Speed Current vehicle speed (kph or mph)
DA Y & NIGHT PAGES

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active six of the shift lights will illuminate in blue, a green overlay box with the vehicle’s speed will appear if the car is 
below the pit speed limit, a red background indicates the vehicle’s speed is over the pit speed limit.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold and hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to 
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed once the tires have 
stabilized after a period of laps. As the number of laps per run will 
vary depending upon track length a good starting point 
is approximately 50% of a full fuel run.
TIRES & AERO
TIRES
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track are 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance 
it is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.
The Wing Setting value in the Aero Calculator section is tied directly 
to the Wing Setting in the Chassis page’s Rear section. Changing one 
will automatically change the other.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Each 
end of the ARB has three options that can be combined to produce 
a total of five stiffness options. Increasing either value will stiffen 
the bar’s effective rate and decreasing will soften the bar’s rate. 
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB 
itself, increasing roll stiffness in the front suspension and inducing 
understeer while cornering. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll 
stiffness of the front suspension and can reduce understeer. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will 
increase slip in the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce the 
slip. Toe-out will decrease straight-line stability but will increase 
turn-in responsiveness. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in 
responsiveness but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the 
brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock 
the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and 
increase brake line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias 
forward and reducing required pedal effort.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase 
brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward 
and reducing required pedal effort.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
LED NIGHT STRIPS
Changes the color of the two light strips on the outer edges of the 
roof. Seven options are available: Blue, Purple, Red, Yellow, Orange, 
Green and Off, with no setting influencing the car’s performance.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. 
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. It is 
important to note that differing combinations of master cylinder size 
will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is because 
increasing or reducing the split in master cylinder size difference 
between front and rear axles will produce an inherent forward or 
rearward bias in brake line pressure. 
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. Twelve positions are available, with higher values providing 
more traction control intervention. More intervention will result 
in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce overall 
performance if the traction control is cutting engine torque too 
aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration. Maps 1-6 are 
for slick tires on a dry track, maps 7-11 are for wet conditions, and 
Setting 12 disables the Traction Control system.
THROTTLE SHAPE SETTING
Throttle shape setting refers to how changes in the drivers pedal 
position result in changes in provided engine torque. Position 1 
provides a butterfly-style throttle response with more aggressive 
torque increase at high pedal travel. Position 3 is less aggressive, 
with a linear torque mapping for throttle position. Position 2 is an 
intermediate setting between the other two.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. The ABS system features 12 
positions divided into three groups to suit varying track conditions, 
with lower values providing less assistance and higher values 
providing more assistance to prevent brake lockup. Settings 1-6 are 
for slick tires in dry conditions, 7-11 are for wet conditions. Generally, 
setting 7 will be good for light rain while settings will need to be 
increased as conditions worsen, with setting 11 being for heavy rain. 
Setting 12 disables the system completely.
DISPLAY PAGE
This sets which page is shown by default when the car is loaded. 
See the Dash Configuration section of this guide for more info.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the front axle 
centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
Minimum drag setups with very low rear wing positions may require 
higher front ride heights in order to achieve the proper balance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car. 
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. 
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer springs 
will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs 
in these situations will result in increased overall performance. 
Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch control of 
the platform and ARB changes should be considered when altering 
corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to rear roll 
stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness 
the ARB stiffness (either via blade or diameter depending on the size 
of the corner spring change) should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted 
to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring 
rate change
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LEFT / RIGHT REAR
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the rear axle 
centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight 
transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce 
overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the 
rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both 
mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear 
ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear 
corner springs for optimal performance.
SPRING SELECTED/SPRING RATE
Similar to at the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller 
variance in ride height between high and low load cases and will 
produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved 
platform control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be 
particularly prominent when exiting slow speed corners with 
aggressive throttle application. Stiffer springs will tend to react 
poorly during these instances especially so on rough tracks which 
will result in significant traction loss. Spring stiffness should be 
matched to the needs of the racetrack and set such that the 
handling balance is consistent between high and low speed 
cornering. As an example case, a car which suffers from high speed 
understeer but low speed oversteer could benefit from an increase 
in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static rear height 
which will reduce rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering 
while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height in high 
speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and 
reduce understeer. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return 
the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative to 
the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires are 
25 mm (~1”) wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear 
tires must also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where 
benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will 
result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in response 
during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided 
if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce straight line 
speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that the values 
are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at the front. 
This means that individual values on the rear wheels are twice as 
powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the car when 
the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised to keep 
the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or asymmetric 
handling behavior; however heavily asymmetric tracks such as 
Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in performance from running 
asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other setup parameters.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into 
the world. 
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher 
values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, 
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
SIXTH GEAR
Two options of 6th gear are available for selection depending 
upon track type. The FIA gear is shorter and should be used at the 
majority of tracks while the IMSA Daytona gear should be used at 
Daytona and Le Mans to prevent reaching the rev limiter before the 
end of the straightaways.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treated as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces. 
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.
increasing roll stiffness in the rear suspension and producing the 
same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the diameter 
of the sway bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness 
of the rear suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing 
the diameter of the sway bar. These blade adjustments can be 
thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between sway bar diameter 
settings.6 ARB blade options are available ranging from 1-1 (softest)
to 3-3 (stiffest).

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low speed compression (LSC) affects how resistant the shock is 
to compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. This 
adjustment is a bleed screw where 2 clicks from closed is maximum 
damping (most resistance to compression) and 38 clicks is minimum 
damping (least resistance to compression). Increasing the low speed 
compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to the 
front or rear of the car during transient movements such as braking 
and direction change with increased damping usually increasing the 
cars tendency to understeer on throttle application.
On the front end of the car, increasing LSC will induce understeer 
under braking and whenever the front suspension is compressing. 
On the rear, more LSC will increase traction on throttle and when 
the rear suspension is in compression, which can be perceived as 
understeer in extreme cases.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION
High speed compression (HSC) affects the shock’s behavior at 
faster damper shaft speeds, usually attributed to curb strikes and 
bumps in the track’s surface. The 0 setting is maximum damping 
and 40 is the minimum. More high speed compression will cause 
the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while less HSC will 
allow the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. HSC is an important for 
proper roll, pitch & heave control of the chassis.
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low speed rebound (LSR) damping controls the stiffness of the 
shock while extending at lower damper shaft speeds, typically 
during body movement as a result of driver inputs. This adjustment 
is a bleed screw where 2 clicks from closed is maximum damping 
and 38 clicks is minimum damping. Higher rebound values will resist 
expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound stiffness will result in improved platform 
control for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response 
but can result in the tire losing complete contact with the track 
surface if the suspension can’t extend fast enough with 
reduced loads. 
On the front end, higher LSR settings will hold the front of the car 
down longer during acceleration but can induce understeer on 
throttle application or over crests. On the rear of the car, more LSR 
will stabilize the car under braking but can induce understeer if set 
too aggressively.
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound (HSR) controls the shock in extension after 
bumps and curb strikes. The 0 setting is maximum damping and 40 
is the minimum. Higher forces will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
quickly. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in 
response to driver inputs, HSR is important for proper chassis 
aerodynamic response to circuit inputs.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require 
adjustment. This is performed by using the ride height adjustments 
at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will increase the ride 
height while left clicks (negative) will reduce the ride height. 
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups.
Baseline is a 100% fuel load setup which is intended solely for 
loading the car. As such, this setup should always pass tech 
inspection at every fuel load and track (Except Nürburgring 
Nordschleife configurations where ‘nuburgring_sprint/endurance’ 
should be used) but will not provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended 
to start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating 
the other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track 
may benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum 
speed reached. 
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Sebring International Raceway High
Daytona International Speedway Low/Medium Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Sonoma Raceway High
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Hungaroring High Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Lime Rock Park High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition. 
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series and 
is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations.
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
• Rear Wing Angle: 7
• Dynamic Front Ride Height: 40.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
• Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 62.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
• Rear Wing Angle: 2
• Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
• Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -2.4 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +7.2 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +2.4 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -7.2 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | USER MANUAL
AUDI R8 LMS EVO II GT3 | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Two adjustment options are available for the differential. 
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on 
throttle oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces 
and kerb strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, 
less off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.