--- PAGE 1 ---

1
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
 Tire Data » 11
Tires & Aero » 11
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Aero Settings » 12
Chassis » 13
 Front » 13
 Rear » 18
 Front Corners » 14
 Rear Corners » 16
Brakes / Drive Unit » 19
 Lighting and Brake Spec » 19
 Hybrid Config and Fuel » 20
 Traction Control, Gear Ratios & Rear Diff Spec » 21
Setup Tips » 22
SETUP TIPS
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dashboard » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the BMW M Hybrid V8 LMDh! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | TECH SPECS
PUSHROD-ACTUATED INDEPENDENT 
TORSION BAR FRONT AND REAR 
SUSPENSION WITH FRONT HEAVE AND 
REAR THIRD-SPRING ELEMENTS
CAST ALUMINUM V8 WITH 
HYBRID MGU-K RECOVERY 
SYSTEM
LENGTH
5100 mm
200.8 in
WIDTH
2000 mm
78.7 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
146.5 CID
TORQUE
480 lb-ft
650 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8200 RPM 
POWER
640 bhp
477 kW
WHEELBASE
3148 mm
124 in
DRY WEIGHT
1030 kg
2270 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1150 kg
2535 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls to
adjust the Brake Bias and Traction Control systems. While this is
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while
out on the track. 
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift up or down. However, the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage.
In these situations the downshift command will simply be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when all of the shift lights on the 
steering wheel have changed to red.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number of 
laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning 
the car to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. 
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
Vital information relating to the car’s performance and driver-adjustable settings can all be found on the digital display 
integrated into the BMW M Hybrid V8 LMDh’s steering wheel.
Left Column
Tyre Pressure Current air pressure in each tire, updated live and displayed in either PSI or Bar.
Lap Fuel The amount of fuel used in the previous lap, in either gallons or liters, is updated at the end of each lap.
Fuel Used The amount of fuel that has been used, in gallons or liters, since the fuel was last added to the car.
SOC Current battery charge level, in percent.
Right Column
TC1 Displays the current Traction Control Gain setting
TC2 Displays the current Traction Control Slip setting
FARB Displays the current setting for the Front Anti-Roll Bar
RARB Displays the current setting for the Rear Anti-Roll Bar
Lap Predict
The onboard systems will attempt to predict the current lap time based on splits and performance and display 
it in the top right.
Last Lap The previously completed lap time, updated and displayed at the end of each lap
Best Lap The fastest lap of the current session 
TMOT The engine’s cooling fluid temperature, in either °F or °C
TOIL Engine oil temperature, in either °F or °C
LAP Displays the number of laps completed in the current session
PWAT Engine cooling fluid pressure, in PSI or Bar
POIL Engine Oil system pressure, in PSI or Bar
TGBX Gearbox oil temperature, in °F or °C
Center Column
RPM The current engine RPM is shown at the top of the center section
Gear Indicator The currently-selected gear is shown as a large number in the center of the display.
BEAM If the car’s nighttime light system is on, this indicator will appear in the lower left of the center area.
Tyre Inoperable
BRKB Inoperable

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | DASH PAGES
WHEELSPIN / BRAKE LOCK INDICATOR LIGHTS
Two sets of LED lights are situated on the dash to quickly communicate to the driver if anywheelspin or brake lockup is 
occurring. The left LED cluster corresponds to the left wheels and the right cluster corresponds to the right wheels.
Traction Control
When the clusters light up all LEDs in blue the Traction Control system is intervening to reduce 
wheelspin. Severe cases of wheelspin and TC system activation will produce a solid blue light 
and the lights will begin flashing for less amounts of TC intervention.
Brake Lockup
Whenever braking force is sufficient to begin locking a wheel the LEDs will illuminate to show 
both which wheel is locking and how severe the lockup is. Pink lights indicate front wheel lockup 
and yellow lights indicate rear wheel lockups, with lockups becoming more severe with more 
LEDs illuminated. The image above shows both front wheels locked with a slight lockup on the 
left-rear wheel.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
PIT LIMITER
Once the optimum shift point has been reached all LEDs will change to red and begin flashing.
Whenever the Pit Speed Limiter is active the dash will feature a magenta box next to the gear indicator with PSL displayed
The top of the steering wheel has a set of lights to help the driver know when to shift up to the next gear while accelerating. As RPM 
increases, the lights will illuminate from the left to right starting with green and ending with two red LEDs on the right.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle setting changes the angle of attack of
the rear wing. Increasing the angle will increase the amount of 
downforce produced and move the aero balance rearward but 
will increase the amount of drag the wing produces. Reducing the 
angle will reduce overall downforce and shift aero balance forward, 
but will reduce drag and allow for a higher top speed. This angle 
is expressed as a reference measurement, not an absolute angle 
relative to the ground.
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool used to display the car’s approximate 
aerodynamic values in a given configuration. Changes to the car’s 
aerodynamic settings will be reflected in the Aero Calculator, giving 
an idea of how the car will behave aerodynamically while on the race 
track. This calculator can also be used to determine what changes 
need to be made to the car to alleviate aerodynamically-induced 
handling issues.
AERO SETTINGS
FRONT/REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front and Rear Ride height via 
telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting.
DOWNFORCE BALANCE
Displayed in percent of Front downforce, this value shows how 
much of the car’s total downforce is over the front axle. A higher 
percentage value indicates more front downforce, increasing 
oversteer in mid- to high-speed corners and a lower percentage 
value indicates more rear downforce, increasing understeer in
mid- to high-speed corners.
L/D
The “L/D” value is the ratio of Lift (downforce) to Drag. This 
quantifies how efficiently the car’s bodywork is producing downforce 
in terms of how much drag is being produced as a result. A higher 
L/D value means more downforce is being produced for each unit of 
drag, meaning the bodywork is being more efficient. Having a higher 
L/D value without sacrificing overall downforce will result in a faster, 
more efficient car. Optimum values for L/D can vary based on the 
aerodynamic configuration and track type.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
HEAVE SPRING
The front Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles 
external loads from purely vertical loads and doesn’t control loads 
that would induce chassis roll when cornering. Generally these loads 
are present for increasing downforce loads at higher speeds, dips 
and crests in the track, or under heavy braking. Higher rate values 
will stiffen the suspension in heave, which is good for controlling ride 
heights to maintain a good aerodynamic platform, but can produce 
a bouncing effect on rough surfaces. Lower rates will absorb bumps 
and loads easier, but will hurt the aerodynamic platform due to 
excessive chassis movement.
HEAVE PERCH OFFSET
The Heave Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the Heave 
Spring. This is one of two methods to adjust ride height through the 
front Heave element, with lower values preloading the spring more 
and raising front ride heights. Conversely, higher values will unload 
the spring and lower front ride heights.
HEAVE SPRING DEFLECTION
Heave Spring Deflection represents the amount the Heave Spring is 
compressed under static conditions. This is not directly adjustable 
but will change with adjustments to the Heave Perch Offset and 
front Torsion Bar settings.
HEAVE SLIDER DEFLECTION
The Slider Deflection is how far the slider mechanism the Heave 
Spring is mounted on has compressed from fully extended. Similar 
to a shock but without any damping forces produced, this doesn’t 
influence the suspension’s behavior.
ARB SIZE
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size alters the stiffness of the front 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the roll 
stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical understeer. This can also, in some cases, 
lead to a more responsive steering feel from the driver. Conversely, 
reducing the ARB size will soften the suspension in roll, increasing 
body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a 
less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle 
will increase.
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly.
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB
itself, increasing roll stiffness in the front suspension and producing 
the same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the 
diameter of the sway bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll 
stiffness of the front suspension and produce the same effects as 
decreasing the diameter of the sway bar. These blade adjustments 
can be thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between sway bar 
diameter settings.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.
PUSHROD LENGTH OFFSET
This adjusts the length of both front suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great way 
to adjust front ride height without altering the preload on the Heave 
Spring or either front Torsion Bars. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Torsion Bar Turns setting on the front corners and the Spring Perch 
Offset on the rear corners.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing the front ride height will decrease overall downforce 
and shift the aerodynamic balance rearward, but will decrease 
drag slightly. Conversely, reducing front ride height will increase 
downforce and shift aero balance forward while slightly increasing 
overall drag.
SHOCK DEFLECTION
EShock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from its 
fully extended length while under static conditions in the garage. 
This is useful for determining how much shock travel is available 
before a bump stop is engaged on the shock.
TORSION BAR DEFLECTION
The Torsion Bar Deflection is a representation of how much the front 
torsion bar springs have been preloaded under static conditions. 
Higher deflection values show higher amounts of spring preload, 
lower values represent less spring preload.
TORSION BAR TURNS
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this 
setting applies a preload to the torsion bar under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the torsion bar, adding 
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
TORSION BAR O.D.
Similar to an Anti-Roll Bar, a torsion bar is a spring that exerts 
resistive forces via applied torque generated through suspension 
travel. However, these torsion bars are fixed to the chassis at one 
end, and thus resist movement only on one wheel in the same way 
a coil spring resists movement and load changes. Increasing the 
torsion bar’s diameter gives a higher spring rate, and reducing the 
diameter gives a lower spring rate. Stiffer springs are very helpful for 
smooth tracks and applications where a high level of aerodynamic 
attitude control is required, however stiff springs reduce mechanical 
grip significantly, especially over bumps. On low-grip and/or bumpy 
tracks, as well as lower speed tracks where aerodynamics may not 
be as effective, softer springs will increase mechanical grip while 
sacrificing aerodynamic control. Torsion Bar Diameter adjustments 
should be made in conjunction with ride height adjustments to 
prevent unwanted grounding of the chassis while on track.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer. Lower values will slow weight transfer to a tire, 
reducing understeer when applied to the front shocks.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMP DAMPING
High Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track.
HS COMP DAMPING SLOPE
The Compression Damping Slope setting controls the overall shape 
of the high-speed compression side of the shock. Lower slope 
values produce a flatter, more digressive curve while higher values 
result in a more linear and aggressive compression graph. The value 
of the slope setting is very important in controlling bump absorption 
at high shock velocities and controlling the aerodynamic platform. 
A lower slope will be helpful for rougher tracks in absorbing bumps 
and sharp impacts such as curbs, while a higher slope will keep 
the suspension more rigid. It’s important to understand that these 
settings will affect the range the High-Speed Compression will have, 
with higher slope values producing a higher overall force for high-
speed compression.
LS REBOUND DAMPING
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When 
tuning for handling, higher front low-speed rebound can increase 
on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce splitter lift) while 
lower values will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce 
understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound 
can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in result 
to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results 
in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations if set 
improperly.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Raising the rear ride height will increase overall downforce and shift 
aero to the front of the car but will increase drag. Decreasing rear 
ride height will do the opposite, with aero shifting rearward and 
overall downforce and drag decreasing.
SHOCK DEFLECTION
Shock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from its 
fully extended length while under static conditions in the garage. 
This is useful for determining how much shock travel is available 
before a bump stop is engaged on the shock.
SPRING DEFLECTION
Spring Deflection shows how much the spring has compressed from 
its unloaded length. This can be used to see spring preload under 
static conditions and compare it against other corners of the car, 
with higher values representing more preload on a given spring.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this setting 
applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. Decreasing 
the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its 
corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing 
the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a 
given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, for 
example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s aero platform better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, but will cause the car’s aerodynamic 
platform to suffer. Due to homologation rules, rear spring rates must 
be symmetrical across the rear axle and can only be changed in 
pairs.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer on throttle application.
CHASSIS

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMP DAMPING
High Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track.
HS COMP DAMPING SLOPE
The Compression Damping Slope setting controls the overall shape 
of the high-speed compression side of the shock. Lower slope 
values produce a flatter, more digressive curve while higher values 
result in a more linear and aggressive compression graph. The value 
of the slope setting is very important in controlling bump absorption 
at high shock velocities and controlling the aerodynamic platform. 
A lower slope will be helpful for rougher tracks in absorbing bumps 
and sharp impacts such as curbs, while a higher slope will keep 
the suspension more rigid. It’s important to understand that these 
settings will affect the range the High-Speed Compression will have, 
with higher slope values producing a higher overall force for high-
speed compression.
LS REBOUND DAMPING
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When 
tuning for handling, higher rear low-speed rebound can increase off-
throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce rear-end lift) while lower 
values will maintain rear end grip longer, helping to reduce oversteer, 
but will allow more rear end lift under deceleration. Excessive 
rear rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel 
bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in result 
to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results 
in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations if set 
improperly.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive camber values 
can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly 
reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance between life and 
performance. Higher rear camber values can increase cornering 
stability but reduce stability under braking.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the rear end, adding toe-in will increase straight-
line stability but may hurt how well the car changes direction.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
THIRD SPRING
The Third Spring, similar to the front Heave Spring, is a spring 
element configured to provide resistance only in vertical suspension 
movement without affecting roll stiffness. This spring element 
is helpful with controlling increasing aerodynamic loads and 
maintaining the proper aerodynamic attitude around a circuit. 
The rear end’s third spring is crucial in maintaining and controlling 
the rear ride height around a circuit to maximize the downforce 
produced by the rear bodywork.
THIRD PERCH OFFSET
The Third Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the rear Third 
Spring. This is one of two methods to adjust ride height through the 
rear Third Spring element, with lower values preloading the spring 
more and raising front ride heights. Conversely, higher values will 
unload the spring and lower front ride heights.
THIRD SPRING DEFLECTION
Third Spring Deflection represents the amount the rear Third Spring 
is compressed under static conditions. This is not directly adjustable 
but will change with adjustments to the Third Perch Offset and rear 
Spring settings.
THIRD SLIDER DEFLECTION
The Slider Deflection is how far the slider mechanism the Third 
Spring is mounted on has compressed from fully extended. Similar 
to a shock but without any damping forces produced, this doesn’t 
influence the suspension’s behavior.
ARB SIZE
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size alters the stiffness of the rear 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the roll 
stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical oversteer. Conversely, reducing the ARB size 
will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing 
mechanical oversteer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from 
the steering, but grip across the rear axle will increase.
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly.
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB
itself, increasing roll stiffness in the rear suspension and producing 
the same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the 
diameter of the Anti-roll bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the 
roll stiffness of the rear suspension and produce the same effects 
as decreasing the diameter of the Anti-roll bar. These blade 
adjustments can be thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between 
Anti-roll bar diameter settings.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | BRAKES / DRIVE UNIT
BRAKES/DRIVE UNIT
LIGHTING & BRAKE SPEC
ROOF ID LIGHT COLOR
The color of the identifier lights on the roof of the car can be 
changed to better identify similarly-painted cars in nighttime 
conditions. This adjustment has no effect on vehicle performance.
PAD COMPOUND
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake 
Pad Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, 
reducing the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing for better 
brake pressure modulation, while “Medium” and “High” provide more 
friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while increasing 
the risk of a brake lockup.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure being 
sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force to 
the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and track 
conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a given 
situation.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | BRAKES / DRIVE UNIT
HYBRID CONFIG & FUEL
NO DEPLOY
In the “No Deploy” mode, the Hybrid system will not use any energy 
stored in the battery. This essentially disables the Hybrid drive 
system and will only charge the battery throughout a lap. This is only 
available in Qualifying and Test sessions and is used to fully charge 
the battery before switching to Qual mode.
QUAL
This mode is intended to be used on flying laps during qualifying 
sessions and will attempt to use all of the battery charge during 
a lap. This is only available during Qualifying and Test sessions 
and should be preceded by the No Deploy setting on outlaps and 
warmup laps to ensure the battery is fully charged before switching 
to the Qual mode.
ATTACK
Attack mode reduces the target State of Charge to use more power 
during race sessions to help with overtaking. Generally the laptime 
gain from this mode is not enough to offset the loss in pace from 
having to recharge and recover from using Attack mode, so it 
should be used only when it is absolutely necessary to complete 
an overtake. This mode can also be used on the final lap for a burst 
of speed since the battery is no longer needed. This mode is only 
available for Practice, Race, and Test sessions.
BALANCED
The Balanced mode is the primary Race mode for the Hybrid system. 
This mode will attempt to deploy electrical charge to reduce lap 
times as much as possible while still maintaining a reasonable State 
of Charge over the duration of a lap. At the start of a session, it will 
take a few flying laps for the Hybrid system to learn the track and 
optimize deployment for the best lap times, and this mode is only 
available in Practice, Race, and Test sessions.
BUILD
The Build mode will attempt to build battery charge as quickly
as possible in the event of a low battery charge or if it is needed 
prior to switching to Attack mode. Note that this will compromise
lap times significantly compared to Balanced, and it’s important
to switch back to Balanced mode once the battery has charged
to avoid losing harvested energy and to prevent unnecessary
loss in pace. This mode is only available in Practice, Race,
and Test sessions.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage.
The Hybrid power system on the BMW LMDh can be set to one of five modes to change the target battery State of Charge 
(SoC) after each lap. Each of these modes will use varying levels of energy throughout a lap to reach a target, and thus 
some will produce more power over the course of a lap and faster lap times at the cost of discharging the battery.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | BRAKES / DRIVE UNIT
TRACTION CONTROL, GEAR RATIOS, & REAR DIFF SPEC
TRACTION CONTROL GAIN
Gain is the amount of intervention the Traction Control will exert 
when wheel spin is detected. Higher values result in a more 
aggressive throttle cut to control wheelspin.
TRACTION CONTROL SLIP
Slip is how sensitive the Traction Control system will be to 
wheelspin. Higher values will activate the Traction Control system 
with smaller amounts of wheelspin, while lower values will allow 
slightly more wheelspin prior to activating the system.
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the gear ratios in the transmission. Two choices 
are available: Short and Long. The Short setting will choose a more 
acceleration-focused gear set for tracks with shorter straights or 
slower corners, while the Long option will choose gears more suited 
to high-speed tracks with long straights.
GEAR SPEEDS
Each of the transmission’s seven forward gears will show the 
approximate ground speed at which the engine will reach maximum 
RPM. These values will change based on which Gear Stack is 
selected, but the true maximum speed may differ slightly due to on-
track conditions.
COAST/DRIVE RAMP ANGLES
Coast and Drive Ramp Angles affect the force exerted by the 
differential to keep both driven tires locked together under 
acceleration. Lower values produce more locking force, and more 
locking force increases understeer during braking and acceleration 
phases. Higher values will produce less locking force and induce 
oversteer in these situations.
CLUTCH FRICTION PLATES
The number of clutch faces affect how much overall force is applied 
to keep the differential locked. Treated as a multiplier, adding more 
faces produces increasingly more locking force.
PRELOAD
The differential can be set with a static load applied. Higher values 
produce more locking force in the differential in all conditions, 
producing more understeer under acceleration and deceleration. 
This value will also affect mid-corner performance, with higher 
values not allowing the differential to unlock as much, increasing 
mid-corner understeer.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | SETUP TIPS 
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
PROVIDED SETUPS
CHASSIS HEIGHTS
BASELINE
A slightly more stable version of the high downforce setup for a 
driver’s first time in the car or for those wanting more stability than 
the high downforce setup provides.
HIGH DOWNFORCE
For use at most tracks. Although quite efficient and creating the 
most downforce, this setup also makes the most drag.
MEDIUM DOWNFORCE
For use at track with long straights like Spa. Sacrificing more 
downforce and efficiency for more straight line speed.
LOW DOWNFORCE
For use at Le Mans. Lowest drag and downforce trim.
DAYTONA
A variation of the Low Downforce setup for use at Daytona with 
changes to avoid bottoming on the oval banking.
DAYTONA 24H
A variation on the Daytona setup made specifically with time of year, 
expected weather, and the demands of a 24 hour race setup in mind.
The BMW M Hybrid V8 LMDh generates the most downforce
(and is generally the most efficient) with an average rear ride
height of 50mm and an average front ride height as low as
possible. It’s important to note that the least amount of drag is 
generated when both ends of the car are as low as possible
(without bottoming).
More rake (high rear ride heights compared to front ride heights) 
will move aero balance forward (oversteer) and less rake will move it 
rearwards (understeer).
You can affect the dynamic ride heights (without changing the roll 
stiffness) on track by adjusting the front heave spring and the rear 
third spring stiffnesses.
FIXED
The high downforce setup with limited fuel for the official
IMSA fixed series.
FIXED QUAL
The fixed series setup with qualifying fuel and hybrid deployment.
FIXED LEMANS
The low downforce setup with limited fuel for the official
IMSA fixed series.
FIXED LEMANS QUAL
The fixed LDF series setup with qualifying fuel and
hybrid deployment.
FIXED DAYTONA
The Daytona setup with limited fuel for the official IMSA fixed series.
FIXED DAYTONA QUAL
The Daytona series setup with qualifying fuel and
hybrid deployment.
In general the front heave spring should be as soft as possible to 
allow the nose of the car to be as low as possible without excessive 
bottoming or an undesirable aero balance shift under braking/turn in.
A soft rear third spring will allow the rear of the car to drop under 
aero load reducing drag but you will lose some amount of downforce 
and efficiency mid corner as the rear ride heights will be well under 
the target rear heights for maximum efficiency (50mm). Some 
compromises will need to be made regarding drag/downforce and 
dynamic aero balance.
There are 12 iRacing setups provided for the BMW M Hybrid V8 LMDh:
The fuel level in all setups (except the fixed IMSA setups) are set to 89 L, which is the maximum tank capacity for this car.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | USER MANUAL
BMW M HYBRID V8 LMDH | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC ADJUSTMENTS
MECHANICAL ADJUSTMENTS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Should you choose to make adjustments to the setup, the easiest 
way to change the aerodynamic balance of the setup is through 
adjustment of the rear wing angle. Generally speaking, if you find 
you want to adjust wing position in more than a click in either 
direction it is recommended you start from one of the other 
downforce trim setups (high, medium, or low).
Lower wing angle = More oversteer, less downforce, and higher 
straight line speed.
Higher wing angle = More understeer, more downforce, and lower 
straight line speed.
If you would like to change the mechanical balance without changing 
the aero balance the front and rear ARBs and ARB blades may be 
adjusted. This can be particularly useful if you are happy with the 
general balance of the car but want either more or less rotation in 
slow speed corners.
The rear differential is a powerful tool in the Acura, and the simplest 
change one can make is increasing or decreasing the preload. While 
adjusting the preload will affect the on throttle behavior you will 
probably notice more of a change on entry and turn in.
If you would like to change the aero balance without changing the 
downforce/drag trim adjust the rear ride height by increasing or 
decreasing the rear pushrod length offset. This will affect balance 
in all situations due to the high amount of downforce but this will be 
particularly noticeable in mid and high speed corners.
Lower pushrod length delta = Lower rear ride height, less rake, and a 
more rearward aero balance (understeer).
Higher pushrod length delta = Higher rear ride height, more rake, 
and a more forward aero balance (oversteer).
Bigger front ARB/higher blade value = More understeer
Smaller front ARB/lower blade values = Less understeer
Bigger rear ARB/higher blade values = More oversteer
Smaller rear ARB/lower blade values = Less oversteer
More preload = Less rotation off throttle, more stability on entry.
Less preload = More rotation off throttle, less stability on entry.