--- PAGE 1 ---

BMW M8 GTE
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
Drivetrain » 19
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Pit Speed Limiter & Wheel Lockup Lights » 9
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Digital Display » 7
 GENERAL INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup Tips » 21
SETUP TIPS
 Tires » 10
 Front » 12
 Diff » 20
Chassis » 12
 Aero Balance Calculator » 11
Tires & Aero » 10 
 In-Car Dials » 13
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 16
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
The twin-turbo, V8 powered beast joins the already impressive lineup of GTE cars in iRacing. With over 
500 bhp the flagship racing car from BMW competes around the world. Racing in series including the 
FIA World Endurance Championship and the IMSA Weathertech SportsCar Championship. In iRacing 
you will see the BMW M8 in the multi-class IMSA Series as well as the iRacing Le Mans series.
A front engine car, the BMW has already earned a reputation for being tough to pass due to its 
performance and size. iRacers will have the opportunity to race the M8 wheel to wheel against 
the Porsche RSR, Ford GT and Ferrari 488 and find out for themselves which of the GTE cars will 
reign supreme.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
BMW M8 GTE | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE-WISHBONE PUSHROD 
FRONT AND REAR SUSPENSION
TWIN-TURBOCHARGED V8
LENGTH
4980 mm
196 in
WIDTH
2224 mm
87.5 in
WHEELBASE
2880 mm
113 in
DRY WEIGHT
1313 kg
2896 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1380 kg
3044 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
243 cid
TORQUE
515 lb-ft
700 Nm
POWER
592 bhp
441 kW
RPM LIMIT
7,000
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias and Traction Control settings. While this is not mandatory, this 
will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and stability 
management systems to suit your driving style while out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
BMW M8 GTE | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction. However, 
the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if it 
feels you are traveling too fast for the gear requested. If that is 
the case, the downshift command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated. This is just before the rev-limiter at 7000 rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may wwselect a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup 
will be automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any 
of the other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to 
Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that 
fits your needs. Because this car uses slightly different chassis and 
body configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary 
to load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. 
For example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely 
will not pass at Bristol.
BMW M8 GTE | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. If 
you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in a 
session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to do 
so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The BMW M8 GTE features a Bosch DDU S2 digital dash display that shows the driver all relevant information on a single, 
easy-to-read screen. Shift lights are situated above the display screen, and a set of warning/lockup lights are mounted to 
DIGITAL DISPLA Y
The data in the main display is shown in multiple columns with each piece of data displayed in its own box.
Left Column
Tyre Pressure
The current air pressure in each tire is shown in this box, in either PSI or Bar depending on the units selected 
in the garage. If a tire is under-inflated the number will be highlighted in orange.
Fuel The amount of fuel remaining in the fuel tank in either Liters or US Gallons.
Gain - Loss The difference between the current lap and the session best lap.
Laptime Previously completed lap time.
Center Column
Gear Currently selected gear
SPEED Vehicle speed in either Miles-per-hour or Kilometers-per-hour depending on the units selected in the garage.
MAP
Currently selected Engine Map. This can be changed in the garage or with the F8 Black Box “Engine Map” 
setting.
TC
Longitudinal Traction Control setting. This can be changed in the garage or with the F8 Black Box “Trac Ctrl 
(TC)” setting.
Right Column
RPM Current engine RPM
TMOT Engine cooling system temperature in °F or °C depending on the units selected in the garage
Boost
Currently selected Engine Boost setting. This can be changed in the garage or with the F8 Black Box “Boost 
Map” setting.
Slip
Lateral Traction Control Setting. This can be changed in the garage or with the F8 Black Box “Trac Ctrl (SLIP)” 
setting.
Ped
Currently selected Throttle Pedal shape. This can be changed in the garage or with the F8 Black Box 
“Throttle Shaping” setting.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | DASH PAGES
When the pit limiter is active the shift light cluster will flash all LED’s in magenta and the PSL box will appear on the main dashboard screen.
A set of wheel lockup lights are mounted on the left side of the display cluster. These LEDs will illuminate whenever a front or rear lockup is 
detected, with the lockup’s severity being shown by how many lights are illuminated. Initially the top and/or bottom LEDs will illuminate, more 
severe lockups are shown with more lights toward the middle of the display. The Green lights represent the front wheels and the Yellow lights 
represent the rear wheels.
PIT LIMITER
WHEEL LOCKUP LIGHTS

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
STARTING PRESSURES
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits or 
the driver has gotten out of the car. Wheel Loads and the amount of 
work a tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, 
and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done 
by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on 
track. These values are measured in three zones across the tread of 
the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits or the driver has gotten out of the car. Tire wear is very 
helpful in identifying any possible issues with alignment, such as one 
side of the tire wearing excessively, and can be used in conjunction 
with tire temperatures to analyze the car’s handling balance. These 
values are measured in the same zones as those of temperature.
TIRES & AERO
TIRES

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed settings are inputs for the aero 
calculator to determine the approximate aero performance with the 
chosen aero package. Changing these values changes the displayed 
Front Downforce value as well as the Downforce-to-Drag ratio in the 
calculator. To check on-track performance, use the average of the 
front ride height sensors (Front RH) and the average of the rear ride 
height sensors (Rear RH) from telemetry. These can also be changed 
to observe how rake will affect aerodynamic performance prior to 
ride height or spring changes by observing their influence on the 
Aero Balance value in the Aero Calculator.
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle. This setting is linked to the Wing Setting on the Chassis 
page and the two will change together.
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO
AERO CALCULATOR
FRONT DOWNFORCE
Aero Balance represents the percentage of total downforce that is 
working on the front axle. This value is calculated with the At Speed 
Ride Height values for the given Wing Setting value, and should be 
monitored during the chassis setup process to prevent unexpected 
results. To ensure chassis adjustments don’t become masked by 
aerodynamic changes, always refer to this value to ensure it remains 
constant before and after aerodynamic setup changes.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB STIFFNESS
The ARB Stiffness option changes the installed Anti-Roll Bar to alter 
the front suspension roll stiffness. The Stiff ARB option will increase 
front roll stiffness and induce understeer, but can lead to better 
aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners from the reduced 
body roll. The Soft ARB option will reduce front roll stiffness, 
increasing front end mechanical grip and reducing understeer, 
but can hurt aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners. 
If desired, the ARB can be disconnected completely, which will 
dramatically reduce front roll stiffness and shift the chassis balance 
towards oversteer.
ARB BLADES
To fine-tune the Anti-Roll Bar assembly stiffness the ARB Blades can 
be adjusted to one of 11 options. These settings are represented 
with two alphanumeric values starting with “D” and then a stiffness 
value for both values. Setting “D1-D1” is the softest option, which 
would produce the most mechanical grip and least understeer, 
while “D6-D6” is the stiffest option and would produce a better 
aerodynamic platform but the most understeer. Blade stiffness 
increases as the sum of the numbers increases (D2-D3, “5”, is softer 
than D3-D3, “6”). If the front ARB Stiffness is set to “Disconnected”, 
this option has no effect on the car’s behavior.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of the 
tires. Toe-out will destabilize the car in a straight line but this will 
increase turn-in response at the cost of increased tire temperature 
and wear. Reducing toe-out (and even running toe-in) will stabilize 
the car in a straight line and reduce temperature and wear, but could 
make the car sluggish in response to steering inputs.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the 
brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock 
the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and 
increase brake line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias 
forward and reducing required pedal effort.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase 
brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward 
and reducing required pedal effort.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
The Brake Pressure Bias setting determines how much of the overall 
brake line pressure is sent to the front wheels. Higher percentages 
apply more braking pressure to the front wheels which can induce 
understeer under braking, while reducing the percentage will shift 
braking force rearward and induce oversteer under braking. If the 
bias is set too far forward or rearward it can cause wheel lockups 
under heavy braking, so it should be set to a value that allows for 
heavy braking without lockups on either axle.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. The system has nine active settings, with “1” providing the least 
assistance and “9” providing the most assistance. Setting “10” will 
disable the traction control system completely. This setting can be 
changed in-car via the F8 Black Box’s “TC” setting.
TRACTION CONTROL SLIP SETTING
The Traction Control Slip system attempts to maintain lateral traction 
(during small slides, for example) through the same methods as 
the main Traction Control system. As with the main system, the 
Slip Setting has nine active settings with “1” providing the least 
assistance and “9” providing the most, with setting “10” disabling the 
system. This setting can be changed in-car via the F8 Black Box’s 
“SLIP” setting. 
THROTTLE SHAPE SETTING
Throttle shape setting refers to how changes in the drivers pedal 
position result in changes in provided engine torque. The BMW 
M8 GTE offers 12 options to suit many driving styles. Setting 1 will 
produce an S-shaped throttle/torque map that is similar to butterfly-
style throttle bodies. Increasing the setting will make the throttle 
shape more linear up to Setting 12, which is purely linear (50% 
throttle = 50% torque). This setting can be changed in-car via the F8 
Black Box’s “PEDAL” setting. 
BOOST MAP SETTING
The Boost Map Setting alters the level of engine boost produced by 
the turbocharger system. Position 1 produces the maximum boost 
allowed by the WEC rules and each setting increase will reduce the 
amount of boost produced. This setting can be changed in-car via 
the F8 Black Box’s “BOOST” setting, and more details on the system’s 
behavior can be found in the garage Notes section.
ENGINE MAP SETTING
To allow for various fuel-saving strategies the Engine Map setting 
can be changed to reduce the fuel usage. Setting 1 will use the 
most fuel, and produce the most power, while settings 2 through 
11 will reduce the amount of fuel used by the engine for fuel saving 
purposes. Setting 12 will greatly reduce fuel usage and power for 
Safety Car periods. This setting can be changed in-car via the F8 
Black Box’s “MAP” setting.
NIGHT LED STRIPS
To identify the car more easily, the color of the LED light strips at the 
top of the rear side windows can be changed with this setting. This 
has no impact on vehicle performance.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as 
decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how much 
force (Pounds or Newtons) is required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front 
end, stiffer springs can keep the front splitter from moving too much 
under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease mechanical 
grip and can cause understeer in slower corners. Softer springs will 
result in more front end movement, which can hurt aero, but will 
increase mechanical grip in the front axle and reduce understeer (or 
cause oversteer, in extreme cases).
LS COMP DAMPING
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.
HS COMP DAMPING
The High-Speed (HS) Compression controls how resistant the shock 
is to compression at higher shock shaft speeds, roughly 1.5 in/s, a 
range usually associated with very bumpy racing surfaces or curb 
strikes. Lower HS Compression values will reduce the force exerted 
in these situations, allowing these large forces to be absorbed by the 
suspension without changing the low-speed characteristics of the 
shock. This is great for very bumpy tracks or circuits where the car 
will see heavy curb usage, while smoother tracks will benefit from 
higher HS Compression values.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LS RBD DAMPING
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the front shocks under acceleration. 
Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values 
will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can 
better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS RBD DAMPING:
High-Speed (HS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is 
to extension (increase in length), at higher shock shaft speeds, 
usually above 1.5 in/s. This area is commonly seen as a response to 
high-speed compression, such as bumps in the racing surface or 
curb strikes. Higher values will prevent the shock from extending 
too quickly after a bump, which can help to maintain aerodynamic 
consistency in terms of body attitude, but too much rebound can 
keep the suspension from extending quickly enough and cause a 
loss of grip, especially over a series of bumps. Lower values will 
allow faster suspension extension, but can allow too much body 
movement and potentially hurt aerodynamics.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.
CASTER
Caster is the vertical angle of the steering axis relative to the side 
view of the chassis. Positive caster angle is where the steering 
axis is leaned rearwards from this viewpoint, the more caster the 
larger the total trail of the contact patch behind the steering axis. 
More caster angle will result in the mechanical trail being a larger 
proportion of the felt steering weight relative to the tires pneumatic 
trail. This will result in a heavier overall steering feel but a possible 
loss in felt feedback from the tire. Increasing caster angle will also 
have secondary effects such as an increase in dynamic camber 
when turning the wheel through large steering angles which can 
be beneficial in chicances or hairpins. As well as this the more 
caster angle the greater the jacking effect during cornering which 
will result in lifting the inside front wheel while lowering the outside 
front wheel. This jacking effect will also result in the unloading and 
potentially lifting of the inside rear wheel which can aid in rotation 
around tight corners.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce but will 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance. 
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how 
much force (Pounds or Newtons) required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the rear 
end, stiffer springs can keep the wing and diffuser from moving 
too much under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease 
mechanical grip and can cause oversteer in slower corners. Softer 
springs will result in more rear end movement, which can hurt 
aero, but will increase mechanical grip at the rear axle and reduce 
oversteer.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as 
a result of driver input, such as the rear shocks under acceleration. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.
HS COMP DAMPING
The High-Speed (HS) Compression controls how resistant the shock 
is to compression at higher shock shaft speeds, roughly 1.5 in/s. 
This range of motion is usually associated with very bumpy racing 
surfaces or curb strikes. Lower HS Compression values will reduce 
the force exerted in these situations, allowing these large forces to 
be absorbed by the suspension without changing the low-speed 
characteristics of the shock. This is great for very bumpy tracks or 
circuits where the car will see heavy curb usage, while smoother 
tracks will benefit from higher HS Compression values.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LS RBD DAMPING
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking. Higher 
rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will 
allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can better 
control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact..
HS RBD DAMPING
High-Speed (HS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is 
to extension (increase in length), at higher shock shaft speeds, 
usually above 1.5 in/s. This area is commonly seen as a response 
to high-speed compression, such as bumps in the racing surface 
or curb strikes. Higher values will prevent the shock from extending 
too quickly after a bump, which can help to maintain aerodynamic 
consistency in terms of body attitude, but too much rebound can 
keep the suspension from extending quickly enough and cause 
a loss of grip. Lower values will allow faster suspension extension, 
but can allow too much body movement and potentially hurt 
aerodynamics.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center 
of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Higher negative camber values will provide more cornering 
forces in the direction of the tire’s camber (more stability in high-
speed cornering), but may reduce on-throttle traction at high 
camber angles. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of 
the tires. This setting can change the rear tire slip angle, with toe-in 

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Tank capacity is 92 L (24.3 gal), 
adjustable in 1 L (0.26 gal) increments.
ARB STIFFNESS 
The ARB Stiffness option changes the installed Anti-Roll Bar to 
alter the rear suspension roll stiffness. The Stiff ARB option will 
increase rear roll stiffness and induce oversteer, but can lead to 
better aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners from the 
reduced body roll. The Soft ARB option will reduce rear roll stiffness, 
increasing rear end mechanical grip and reducing oversteer, but can 
hurt aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners. If desired, the 
ARB can be disconnected completely, which will dramatically reduce 
rear roll stiffness and shift the chassis balance towards understeer.
ARB BLADES 
To fine-tune the Anti-Roll Bar assembly stiffness the ARB Blades can 
be adjusted to one of 7 options. These settings are represented with 
two alphanumeric values starting with “D” and then a stiffness value 
for both values. Setting “D1-D1” is the softest option, which would 
produce the most mechanical grip and least oversteer, while “D4-
D4” is the stiffest option and would produce a better aerodynamic 
platform but the most oversteer. Blade stiffness increases as the 
sum of the numbers increases (D2-D3, “5”, is softer than D3-D3, “6”). 
If the rear ARB Stiffness is set to “Disconnected”, this option has no 
effect on the car’s behavior.
WING ANGLE
The wing angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle. More information on height changes for a change in wing 
angle can be found in the Setup Tips section of this guide.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DRIVETRAIN
DRIVETRAIN
FINAL DRIVE
The Final Drive Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion and 
the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed. Changing this value 
and then clicking “Apply” will change the expected maximum speeds 
for all six forward gear options.
TRANSMISSION GEARS
All six gears in the transmission can be changed to suit track 
conditions or driver preferences. Each gear is represented by 
the ratio of teeth on the input and output gears, with lower ratios 
reducing acceleration but increasing top speed and higher ratios 
increasing acceleration but reducing top speed. Once a gear is 
chosen and the “Apply” button is pressed, the expected top speed 
the gear is capable of is updated beside the ratio choice.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DRIVETRAIN
DIFF
DIFF COAST RAMP ANGLE
The Coast Ramp angle changes how much force is exerted to lock 
the differential under deceleration. Higher numbers exert less 
locking force, lower numbers exert more locking force. Generally, 
more understeer will be present with higher locking forces.
DIFF DRIVE RAMP ANGLE
The Drive Ramp angle changes how much force is exerted to lock 
the differential under acceleration. Like the coast ramp setting, 
higher angles produce less locking force and lower angles produce 
more force, with higher forces typically producing more understeer 
out of a corner. Too much locking force (very low angle), however, 
can sometimes result in a snap-oversteer on corner exit.
DIFF CLUTCH FRICTION FACES
Changing the number of clutch plates, or friction faces, in the 
differential will multiply the force produced by the differential to keep 
the rear axle locked. Higher numbers of faces will multiply the forces 
relative to the lowest setting of 2 friction faces. For example, 6 faces 
will have three times as much force as 2 plates, while 2 plates will 
have half the forces of 4 plates.
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behaviour as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
BMW M8 GTE | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
BMW M8 GTE | USER MANUAL
BMW M8 GTE | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
HANDLING
If fuel level needs to be increased or decreased, the Spring Perch 
Offset adjustments are suggested to maintain chassis heights and 
may be necessary to pass tech inspection:
• Reduce Perch Offset (Left Click) - Raises corner
• Increase Perch Offset (Right Click) - Lowers corner
If conditions change from the reference conditions, gearing or 
handling may need to be adjusted to suit changing track conditions:
Rear Wing Adjustments:
• Higher rear wing angle will increase overall downforce and 
move aero balance rearward, decreasing oversteer in high-
speed corners
• Lower rear wing angle will decrease overall downforce 
and move aero balance forward, increasing oversteer in 
high-speed corners
Low-Speed Handling:
Increase Oversteer
• Softer front ARB (entry-mid)
• Stiffer rear ARB (mid-exit)
• More diff coast ramp angle (entry)
• Less diff coast ramp angle (exit)
Increase Understeer
• Stiffer front ARB (entry-mid)
• Softer rear ARB (mid-exit)
• Less diff coast ramp angle (entry)
• More diff drive ramp angle (exit)