--- PAGE 1 ---

BMW M4 G82 GT4
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup Tips » 18
SETUP TIPS
 Tire Data » 11
 Front » 12
Chassis » 12
Tires & Aero » 11 
 In-Car Dials » 13
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear » 17
 Rear Corners » 16
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the BMW M4 G82 GT4! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | TECH SPECS
FULLY ADJUSTABLE INDEPENDENT 
FRONT AND REAR SUSPENSION. 
SIX-CYLINDER IN-LINE WITH M 
TWINPOWER TURBO TECHNOLOGY
LENGTH
4863 mm
191.5 in
WIDTH
2093 mm
82.4 in
WHEELBASE
2857 mm
112.4 in
DRY WEIGHT
1532 kg
3377 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1642 kg
3621 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
3.0 Liters
183 cid
TORQUE
480 lb-ft
650 Nm
POWER
530 bhp
395 kW
RPM LIMIT
7450
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If 
that is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are fully illuminated in red.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may wwselect a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The dash display in this car is adjustable and features two selectable pages to display differing levels of vehicle information. 
DASH PAGE 1 CONFIGURATION
Left Cluster
Tyre Pressure Current tire pressures in Bar or PSI are shown in the upper left group
DSC System Setting The DSC setting is shown in the upper left box in the group below the Tyre Pressures
Traction Control Setting
When applicable, the Traction Control system (TC) setting is shown next to the DSC setting. This will only 
show a value if the DSC is currently set to “Off”, when it will display a red box indicating the TC system is 
disabled, or if DSC Mode is set to “TC”, when it will show the curent TC setting value
ABS Status
The Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) setting will display as either On or Off depending on the current DSC 
system setting
Throttle Setting The currently active throttle setting is shown below the DSC setting
SPD Not used
LT Not used
TMOT Engine cooling system temperature, °C or °F
TOIL Engine oil temperature, °C or °F
TGEAR Gearbox oil temperature, °C or °F
TDIFF Rear differential oil temperature, °C or °F
Center
Gear The currently selected gear is shown in the center of the display
Speed The vehicle’s current speed is shown below the gear indicator in kph or mph
Fuel Used Amount of fuel used since leaving the pits in Liters or Gallons

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGE 2 CONFIGURATION
SHIFT LIGHTS
Right Cluster
RPM Engine tachometer, shown in Revolutions per Minute
Brake Balance Current brake bias setting as percentage to the front brakes
pBrakeF
The pressure in the brake lines to one of the front brake systems (not a sum of both). Displayed in Bar or PSI, 
but will only show the last three digits when using PSI
Time Diff Current time delta between the current and session-best lap
Lap Time
Previously-completed lap time. After a lap is completed this box will stretch across the display to show the full 
lap time before returning to its normal size
Lap Number of laps completed since leaving the pits
Min Session minutes that have transpired
Page 2 replaces the Tyre Pressure block with lap time information:
Fastest Lap Time Current session fastest lap
Predicted Lap Time Live estimate for the current lap’s time
LED lights at the top of the digital display will illuminate from the 
outer lights inward as RPM increases. Shifting is recommended when 
the center red lights have illuminated.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | DASH PAGES
Two amber lights on either side of the digital display will illuminate 
whenever the Traction Control system is active and attempting to 
prevent wheelspin.
Blue LED lights on each side of the display will illuminate whenever 
the Anti-Lock Brake system is intervening to prevent a wheel lockup. 
Whenever the pit limiter is active, the outermost shift lights will light 
up in a magenta color and the Lap Time box in the lower right will 
switch to a Pit Time box, displaying the amount of time spent in the 
pit box for a stop.
TC ACTIVE LIGHTS ABS ACTIVE LIGHTS
PIT LIMITER

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will. 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB SETTING
To fine tune the front suspension’s behavior, the Anti-Roll Bar 
stiffness can be tuned using the ARB Setting in the garage.
Five settings are available, with 1 being the softest setting and
5 being the stiffest setting. Stiffer settings will induce understeer 
and increase stability in high-speed cornering while softer settings 
will reduce understeer. This is not adjustable while driving.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and
Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out (negative 
value) will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease straight-
line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and increase 
straight-line stability.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result 
in more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in 
right hand corners, crossweight under 50% will result in the opposite 
effect. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage across the
front axle. Higher Nose Weight values will induce understeer
when cornering and promote straight-line stability, while lower
Nose Weight values will increase oversteer while cornering.
This is not directly adjustable and is altered by other adjustments, 
such as Fuel Level.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DASH DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. Two options are 
available as previously described in the dash configuration section of 
this manual.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure
in the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will
shift the brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock
up the front tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in 
braking zones. This should be tuned for both driver preference
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance
for a given situation.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but allow the least modulation.
DSC SETTING
BMW’s Dynamic Stability Control (DSC) is a multifaceted system that 
monitors grip levels at all four tires and attempts to keep the car 
under control at all times by cutting power and torque delivery to 
the wheels when wheelspin or a slide is detected. The system can 
be run in one of four modes: Off, On, MDM, and TC. The “Off” and 
“On” settings disable or enable the DSC system entirely, with “Off” 
disabling both the Anti-Lock Brake (ABS) and Traction Control (TC) 
systems. The MDM setting will provide a less aggressive ABS and TC 
response but does not allow for user-selectable TC system settings. 
Finally the TC setting will set the ABS system to the MDM mode 
value but allow for a user-selected TC system setting.
TC SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ECU cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. Ten positions are available: Settings 2-10 range from least 
intervention/sensitivity (position 2) to the highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 10) while position 1 disables the traction control 
completely. More intervention will result in less wheelspin and less 
rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance if the traction 
control is cutting engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner 
exit acceleration. Unless the DSC system is set to “TC”, this setting is 
non-adjustable and will automatically set to a predetermined value.
THROTTLE SETTING
The Throttle Setting will adjust how linear the power delivery is 
based on the throttle pedal position. The Dry setting will produce
a digressive response curve with more initial power at low pedal 
travel, becoming less sensitive at high amounts of pedal travel.
The Wet setting will be more progressive, with less power delivery 
at low pedal travel. Linear will be a consistent power application 
through the full pedal range.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to a reference point on the chassis. 
Since these values are measured to a specific reference point 
on the car these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s 
ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the 
height of the car off of the race track under static conditions. 
Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they 
can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as 
well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness.
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control. However overly 
stiff springs will result in increased tire load variation which will 
manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of 
stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch 
control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when 
altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to 
rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper. Setting “-18” is minimum damping (least resistance 
to compression) while “0” is maximum damping (most resistance 
to compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result in faster 
weight transfer to the wheel during transient movements, such 
as braking and direction change, with increased damping usually 
providing an increase in turn-in response but a reduction in overall 
grip in the context of front dampers. High speed compression 
damping will increase proportionally to the increase in low speed 
compression damping which will also result in harsher response 
to kerb strikes. At smoother tracks more bump stiffness will 
typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with 
aggressive kerbs less compression damping can result in an increase 
in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to
both low and high speed rebound damping characteristics.
Increasing rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the 
damper extends in both low and high speed situations. A typical 
low damper speed situation would be as the car rolls back to 
level on a corner exit while a high speed situation would be where 
the suspension is extending after large kerb contact. Setting 
“-18” is minimum damping (least resistance to extension) while 
“0” is maximum damping (most resistance to extension). While 
high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control 
for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response it 
is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in 
rebounding as this will result in the tire losing complete contact with 
the track surface which can induce or exacerbate severe oscillations.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well as 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller
variance in ride height between high and low load cases and will 
produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved 
platform control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be 
particularly prominent when exiting slow speed corners with 
aggressive throttle application. Stiffer springs will tend to react 
poorly during these instances especially so on rough tracks which 
will result in significant traction loss. Spring stiffness should be 
matched to the needs of the racetrack and set such that the 
handling balance is consistent between high and low speed 
cornering. As an example case, a car which suffers from high speed 
understeer but low speed oversteer could benefit from an increase 
in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static rear height 
which will reduce rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering 
while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height in high 
speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and 
reduce understeer. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return 
the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling
both the low and high speed compression damping characteristics 
of the damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing the compression damping will result in faster weight 
transfer to the wheel during transient movements, such as 
accelerating and direction change, with increased damping
usually providing an increase in response but a reduction in
overall grip especially at corner exit traction in the context of
rear dampers. Excessively stiff compression damping can cause 
very poor traction on rough tracks as it can result in large tire load 
variation and a reduction in overall grip.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling
both the low and high speed damping characteristics of the
damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing rebound damping will slow down the rate at which
the damper extends in both low and high speed situations.
High rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control 
for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response but 
it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in 
rebounding as this will result in the tire losing complete contact with 
the track surface. This can be particularly detrimental during braking 
events and during the initial turn-in phase though an increase in 
rebound stiffness can help to “slow down” the change in pitch of the 
car as the brakes are applied, potentially increasing braking stability.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and
Toe-out is the opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run 
toe-in. Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability 
and a reduction in response during direction changes. Large values 
of toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling 
drag and reduce straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes 
remember that the values are for each individual wheel as opposed 
to paired as at the front. This means that individual values on the 
rear wheels are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment 
at the front of the car when the rear toes are summed together. 
Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal to 
prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily 
asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in 
performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and 
other setup parameters.
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into
the world.
ARB SETTING 
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll
stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll
but increasing mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the
car to “take a set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely,
reducing the ARB assembly stiffness will soften the suspension
in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer.
This can result in a less-responsive feel from the rear especially in 
transient movements, but grip across the rear axle will increase.
Six ARB settings are available ranging from 1 ‘soft’ to 5 ‘stiff’, with 
setting “0” disconnecting the rear ARB entirely to dramatically 
reduce oversteer if desired.
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
BASELINE
50% fuel level, the default setup when first loading the car, 
intentionally conservative to allow you to acclimatize to a new
car or track.
BASELINE_WET
50% fuel level, the default setup for a wet track with wet tires
fitted and driver aids adjusted for wet conditions.
ENDURANCE
100% fuel level, intended for most tracks where optimal wing
angles will be in the 3-5 range and race lengths are at, or over,
one hour in length.
ENDURANCE LOW DOWNFORCE
100% fuel level, intended for tracks where straight-line performance 
is a priority (Daytona, Le Mans, etc.) and a low wing angle is 
required. Fueled for race lengths at, or over, one hour in length.
Should you choose to make your own adjustments the easiest way 
to change the balance of the car is through the Anti-Roll Bars or 
the Wing setting:
Stiffer front ARB - More understeer
Stiffer rear ARB - More oversteer
Lower wing setting - More oversteer, less downforce, and higher 
straight-line speed.
Higher wing setting - More understeer, more downforce, and lower 
straight-line speed.
SPRINT_OPEN
56% fuel level, intended for most tracks in the Open Setup
series where optimal wing angles are in the 3-5 range.
SPRINT_OPEN_LOW_DOWNFORCE
56% fuel level, intended for tracks in the Open Setup series
where straight-line performance is a priority and optimal wing
angles are low.
SPRINT_FIXED
50% fuel level, intended for short sprint races and the setup
used for the Fixed Setup series.
In the event a setup fails tech inspection after fuel level or other 
changes it is likely the ride heights require adjustment. This is 
performed by using the Spring Perch Offset adjustments at either 
end of the car: Right-clicks (positive) will reduce the ride height, 
left-clicks (negative) will increase the ride height.
In the iRacing Setup folder you will find several default setups to choose from:
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | SETUP TIPS