--- PAGE 1 ---

BMW M2 CSR
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup Tips » 17
SETUP TIPS
 Tire Data » 10
 Front » 11
Chassis » 11
Tires & Aero » 10 
 In-Car Dials » 12
 Front Corners » 13 
 Rear » 15
 Rear Corners » 14
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the BMW M2 CSR! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
BMW M4 G82 GT4 | TECH SPECS
STRUT FRONT SUSPENSION, 
MULTI-LINK REAR SUSPENSION
SIX-CYLINDER IN-LINE, FOUR VALVES
LENGTH
4460 mm
175.6 in
WIDTH
1854 mm
73 in
WHEELBASE
2692 mm
106 in
DRY WEIGHT
1544 kg
3405 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1715 kg
3781 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
3.0 Liters
183 cid
TORQUE
406 lb-ft
550 Nm
POWER
365 bhp
272 kW
RPM LIMIT
7500
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
BMW M2 CSR | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may wwselect a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup <baseline.sto>. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs. 
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
BMW M2 CSR | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in 
a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to 
do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
A single-page dash display provides all relevant information to the driver, as well as status LEDs and a cluster of shift lights 
above the display.
Tyre Pressure The live tire pressure readouts are shown in the upper left of the display
Oil Engine Oil temperature, in °C or °F
WAT Engine cooling water temperature, in °C or °F
Tire Temperatures
Live tire carcass temperatures for each tire, in °C or °F. These values mirror what is seen on the 
Garage’s Tire page.
TDiffOil Rear differential oil temperature, in °C or °F
GBX Gearbox oil temperature, in °C or °F
Lap Number Number of laps completed in the current session
Best Time The current session’s best lap time
Predictive Time Displays the estimated lap time for the current lap based on live splits
nEng Engine RPM
Speed Current vehicle speed, in kph or mph
GFuelUsed Amount of fuel used since leaving the pits

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | DASH PAGES
STATUS LIGHTS
SHIFT LIGHTS
Fuel Illuminates in red when the amount of fuel in the car drops below 9 liters (2.4 gallons)
PSL Flashes yellow when the Pit Speed Limiter is active
DSC
Changes color based on the current DSC setting: Red when the system is OFF, Blue when the system is in 
MDM mode, and Green when the system is ON.
Lights Illuminates when the headlights and accessory exterior lights are on
ABS Inoperable, illuminates in the event of an ABS system failure
FDS Changes color to represent the current FDS (Throttle) setting: Blue for “Dry” mode, Green for “Wet” mode
A row of ten LED lights sit above the digital display to show when the 
engine RPM has reached the optimal shift point. Upshifting should 
be done when all the lights are illuminated.
Eight lights are arranged on either side of the digital dash to display 
when various systems are active in the car.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.
TIRES 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB SETTING
The front ARB setting alters the anti-roll bar stiffness in the 
front suspension. Two numerical settings are available. Setting 1 
producing less front roll stiffness, reducing understeer, and setting 
2 producing more front roll stiffness, increasing understeer.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out (negative 
value) will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease straight-
line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and increase 
straight-line stability.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result 
in more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer 
in right hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making 
changes to the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage across the 
front axle. Higher Nose Weight values will induce understeer when 
cornering and promote straight-line stability, while lower Nose 
Weight values will increase oversteer while cornering. This is not 
directly adjustable and is altered by other adjustments, such as 
Fuel Level.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DSC SETTING
Allows adjustment of the dynamic stability control (DSC) system. 
Three options are available, ‘ON’ - Full assist with aggressive torque 
cut when wheelspin is detected, ‘MDM’ - Reduced intervention 
and ‘OFF’. Typically, MDM and OFF are used. MDM provides a good 
balance between assistance in large slides or moments of excessive 
wheelspin while allowing some degree of slip in normal usage. 
It is recommended to learn the car with DSC set to MDM before 
transitioning to OFF. 
THROTTLE SETTING
The throttle setting alters how much power and torque is delivered 
through the throttle pedal’s range of movement. The Dry option 
will deliver more power at low throttle values, while the Wet option 
will reduce power delivery at low throttle positions to help prevent 
wheelspin in low-grip conditions or in the rain.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the bottom surface of the car’s floor 
on the front wheel centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing 
front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as decrease 
overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer across 
the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride height will 
increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the weight transfer 
across the front axle.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer 
springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control. However overly 
stiff springs will result in increased tire load variation which will 
manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of 
stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch 
control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when 
altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to 
rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously. Three options are available and they 
adjust symmetrically (changing the left-front will change the right-
front, and vice versa).
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SHOCK SETTING
The shock setting is a paired adjustment, changing both the 
compression and rebound side of the shock through a single setting. 
Settings are represented with a negative value, with “-1” being the 
stiffest setting and “-20” being the softest setting. Stiffer shocks will 
control the chassis’s attitude and ride heights better while sacrificing 
bump absorption, while softer shocks will absorb bumps better at 
the cost of chassis height control.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well as 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. Three options are available 
and they adjust symmetrically (changing the left-front will change 
the right-front, and vice versa).
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SHOCK SETTING
The shock setting is a paired adjustment, changing both the 
compression and rebound side of the shock through a single setting. 
Settings are represented with a negative value, with “-1” being the 
stiffest setting and “-20” being the softest setting. Stiffer shocks will 
control the chassis’s attitude and ride heights better while sacrificing 
bump absorption, while softer shocks will absorb bumps better at 
the cost of chassis height control.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance. 

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
BMW M2 CSR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that 
the values are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as 
at the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels 
are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of 
the car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it 
is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal to prevent 
crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily 
asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in 
performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe 
and other setup parameters.
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into
the world.
ARB SETTING 
Like with the front suspension, the rear suspension’s Anti-Roll Bar 
can be adjusted via the rear ARB setting. Two options are available, 
with setting 1 producing less rear roll stiffness, inducing understeer, 
and setting 2 producing more rear roll stiffness, promoting oversteer.
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
BMW M2 CSR | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
BMW M2 CSR | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
SETUP NOTES
PROVIDED SETUPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require 
adjustment. This is performed by using the spring perch adjustments 
at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will decrease the ride 
height while left clicks (negative) will increase the ride height.
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups.
Baseline is a 50% fuel load setup which is intended solely for loading 
the car. As such, this setup should always pass tech inspection at 
every fuel load and track but will not provide ultimate performance.
The BMW M2 CSR is a car with relatively few setup adjustments 
available, however, should you wish to build your own setup, we have 
provided the following notes to help you get started.
TIRE PRESSURES
For all 4 corners at most tracks minimum air pressures will likely 
provide the most performance, these minimums have been set such 
that the hot pressures reach a typical real-world hot pressure target. 
However, should the track have particularly long straightaways (such 
as Le Mans) then you may benefit from increasing tire pressures 
slightly to reduce rolling drag and tire temperature generation.
WING SETTING
Two positions of wing angle are available, a higher wing angle 
produces more aerodynamic downforce, more drag and a rearwards 
shift in aero balance. For tracks with long straights it is beneficial to 
run at the -4 position while tracks with many high speed corners (or 
hot conditions) may benefit from the extra stability provided by the 
-1.5 position.
SPRING RATE
At the front of the car three options of spring rate are available 
while at the rear five are available. Both front and rear have similar 
total authority to change the mechanical balance but with the rear 
having a finer range of adjustment available. At the front of the car 
a stiffer spring will result in more understeer but reduced aero pitch 
sensitivity while at the rear of the car a stiffer spring will result in 
more oversteer.
CAMBER
At the front of the car it is advised to run as much camber as 
possible. More camber results in more lateral (cornering) capability 
while reducing longitudinal (traction and straight line braking) 
capability. Often the gains in lateral capability will outweigh the 
loss in longitudinal capability however, you may find the trade off of 
running lower camber at the rear of the car (such as approximately 
-2.0 degrees) to be worthwhile in respect to corner exit traction.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series
ARB SETTING
Two positions of ARB are available at each end of the car as a fine 
tune to the balance or to offset a change in corner spring rate. At 
the front of the car a stiffer ARB will result in more understeer while 
at the rear of the car a stiffer ARB will result in more oversteer. A 
change in front ARB is approximately equal to one position change in 
front spring rate, while at the rear of the car a change in rear ARB is 
approximately equal to two position changes in rear spring rate. For 
example, If the front spring is changed from 180 N/mm to 200 N/mm 
then a corresponding change in the front ARB from 2 -> 1 will restore 
the mechanical balance approximately to its prior setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
At both the front and rear of the car the most performance 
mechanically and aerodynamically is achieved at the lowest possible 
ride heights while still passing tech inspection. This is 125 mm in 
the front and rear. Front ride height should only be increased at 
extreme tracks such as the Nurburgring in the event of excessive 
ground contact. Rear ride height can be increased slightly to move 
the aerodynamic balance forwards for more oversteer but this 
will produce less overall downforce, more aerodynamic drag and 
reduced rear axle capability unless it is paired with an increase in 
rear wing angle. This is adjusted by moving the spring perch offsets 
as stated previously.
TOE-IN
At the front of the car more toe-in can result in improved mid 
corner performance but at the cost of entry stability and straight 
line braking. More toe-out will improve initial turn-in response but 
can overslip the inside tire during mid-corner resulting in excessive 
scrub. At the rear of the car only toe-in is available. More toe-in will 
result in greater stability during braking and on power movements 
however it may result in more mid-corner understeer and slower 
overall response to inputs.
BMW M2 CSR | SETUP TIPS