--- PAGE 1 ---

1
CHEVROLET
CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 14
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 23
 Chassis Adjustments » 23
 Differential Adjustments » 24
Chassis » 14
Setup Tips » 22
 Aero Balance Calculator » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 15
 Front Corners » 16 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
SETUP TIPS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 20
 Gears / Differential » 19

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Chevrolet Corvette Z06 GT3.R! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | TECH SPECS
SHORT-LONG ARM DOUBLE WISHBONE 
FRONT AND REAR SUSPENSION
GM SMALL-BLOCK 
NATURALL Y-ASPIRATED V8
LENGTH
4625 mm
182 in
WIDTH
2050 mm
81 in
DISPLACEMENT
5.5 Liters
334 CID
TORQUE
430 lb-ft
583 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8000 RPM 
POWER
520 bhp
388 kW
WHEELBASE
2718 mm
107 in
DRY WEIGHT
1335 kg
2943 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1494 kg
3294 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. 
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
However the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to 
downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear selected 
and would incur engine damage. If that is the case, the gear change 
command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in 
the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in 
a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to 
do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Corvette Z06 GT3.R features a digital dash display with two page options to show all relevant 
information to the driver while on-track.
Left Column
Tire Pressures
Live tire pressures are displayed in four blocks in the upper left of the display in units based on the selected 
garage measurement system. Each pressure value will have a background color corresponding to the current 
pressure: Blue if the tire is under the optimum pressure, Red if the tire is overinflated, and Green if the tire is in 
the optimum tire pressure range.
Core Temperatures
Live tire carcass temperatures are displayed in the four boxes under the tire pressure displays. Just like the 
pressures, each temperature is shown with a background color to represent the tire’s performance: Blue if the 
tire is too cold, Red if the tire is overheated, and Green when the tire is in an optimal operating window.
Brake Bias
The current Brake Bias setting is shown on the left of the screen as the Front brake line pressure percentage 
below the temperatures.
Laps Completed The box to the right of the Brake Bias displays the number of laps completed in the current session
Traction Control (TC) Currently selected Traction Control system setting
Multi Not used in the iRacing simulation.
Anti-lock Brake (ABS) Currently selected Anti-lock Brake system setting
Yaw This value isn’t directly adjustable but is linked to the Traction Control setting
Map Throttle Pedal Map - currently the real car and the iRacing model use a linear map
Center
Gear
The currently-selected transmission gear is shown in the upper-center of the display. Forward gears are 
shown in white, Neutral in green, and Reverse in red.
Split
The live difference between the current lap and the session best lap is shown beneath the gear indicator, 
shown in red if the current lap is slower and green if the current lap is faster.
Predicted Lap-time Beneath the split is the currently predicted lap time
RACE DASH CONFIGURATION

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | DASH PAGES
Right Columns
RPM The engine RPM is shown in the upper right in large yellow numbers
Speed
The vehicle’s speed is shown in the upper right corner next to the RPM in units based on the garage’s
selected units
Fuel per Lap
The amount of fuel used in the previous lap is shown below the vehicle’s speed. This is displayed in either 
Gallon/Lap or Liter/Lap based on the selected garage measurement system
Lap Time The previously-completed lap time is shown in the middle of the display in yellow numbers
Best Lap Time The session-best lap time is shown beneath the previous lap time
RACE BASIC DASH CONFIGURATION
Simplified race page to be used at drivers preference. Data is presented in the same location and same manner
but with certain parameters omitted.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | DASH PAGES
PIT SPEED LIMITER
Whenever the pit road speed limiter is active the display will change 
to the special format shown above. A green background indicates 
that the car is at or below the target speed. If the pit speed limiter is 
engaged at more than 20 kph (~12 mph) above the target speed, the 
background will appear red.
It will turn orange when the car is less than 20 kph above the target. 
Progress bars on both sides of the display will illuminate from the 
bottom to the top as the car slows and approaches pit road speed.
SHIFT LIGHTS
The top of the digital display has a set of LED shift lights to help the driver know when to upshift while accelerating. As RPM increases the 
lights will illuminate from left to right, with all lights turning red when the ideal shift point has been reached. If the engine is pushed past this 
point the lights will change from red to blue, a sign the engine is nearing the rev limiter. For shorter gears the duration of the all-red lights can 
be very short and may not appear if the engine RPM is rising very quickly.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | DASH PAGES
TRACTION CONTROL LIGHT DISPLA Y
LEDs on each side of the dash display show how close the rear tires 
are to the slip ratio target. Green indicates progress toward the 
target. A full set of 5 green lights indicate the tire is at the target slip 
ratio. The left & right banks of lights correspond to the left and right 
rear tires.
Whenever the Traction Control system is active and intervening 
to prevent wheelspin, blue LEDs will illuminate on either side of 
the display and overlay the green slip lights. The more aggressively 
the system is reducing torque to prevent wheelspin, the more blue 
lights will illuminate. The lights progress from the bottom to the top 
and are symmetric because the cuts to engine torque affect both 
rear wheels.
WHEEL LOCKUP INDICATORS
The display is divided into four quadrants that correspond to the four tires. Whenever a lockup is detected, the display’s background will fill 
the quadrant associated with the locking wheel. For rear lockups the lower half of the screen will be filled with orange and for front lockups 
the upper half will fill with red. These indicators are tied to wheel slip and are not directly related to ABS system activation. Stronger ABS 
intervention will result in less lock-up and therefore less illumination of the background lights.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Tires fitted to the Chevrolet Corvette Z06 GT3.R car can be changed 
based on weather conditions. The Dry option fits a slick tire intended 
for dry track conditions while the Wet option fits a treaded tire for 
wet track surfaces.
STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car as 
well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
higher settings. Increasing the rear wing setting results in more total 
cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but will 
also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing setting 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.
The Wing Setting value in the Aero Calculator section is tied directly 
to the Wing Setting in the Chassis page’s Rear section. Changing one 
will automatically change the other.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) Blades (or arms) can be adjusted to tune 
the suspension roll stiffness. This option changes the orientation of 
the ARB blades and are given numerical values for simplicity, with 6 
being the softest option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value 
is decreased to the minimum setting of 0. Stiffer blade settings will 
increase front roll stiffness and induce understeer while softer blade 
settings will reduce front roll stiffness and reduce understeer.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels 
are closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheels, and
Toe-out (Negative value in the garage) is the opposite. On the front 
end, adding toe-out will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease 
straight-line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and 
increase straight-line stability.
BRAKE PEDAL RATIO
The Brake Pedal Ratio can be used to multiply the amount of force 
applied to the brake master cylinders for a given amount of force 
applied to the brake pedal. Lower ratios require more brake pedal 
application force to lock the wheels but are easier to modulate while 
higher ratios require less pedal force but can be difficult to control.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but allow the least modulation.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is using. Twelve positions are available: 
Position 1 has the least intervention/support, position 11 has the 
most support, and position 0 disables the ABS completely. Positions 
1-6 are recommended for use in dry conditions while 7-11 are best 
for wet conditions. More intervention reduces the possibility of 
and the duration of lockups during braking but can result in longer 
braking distances if the system is set too high for the amount of 
available grip.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ECU cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. Twelve positions are available: Settings 1-11 range from least 
intervention/sensitivity (position 1) to the highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 11) while position 0 disables the traction control 
completely. Like the ABS settings, options 1-6 are recommended for 
dry conditions and 7-11 are for wet conditions. More intervention will 
result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce overall 
performance if the traction control is cutting engine torque too 
aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration.
DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the digital dash page active when the car is loaded into the 
world. Two options are available: Race and Race Basic. See the Dash 
Configuration section for more information on the dash pages.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in 
more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the Ride Height settings at each corner of the car.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
ride height adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the front axle 
centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing front ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. 
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control. However overly 
stiff springs will result in increased tire load variation which will 
manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of 
stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch 
control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when 
altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to 
rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as the softer springs. When changing springs on this 
car, the spring perch is automatically adjusted to maintain the bump 
rubber gap and return the car to the ride height it had before 
the change.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made by 
changing individual corner ride heights.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the rear axle 
centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight 
transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce 
overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the 
rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both 
mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear 
ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear 
corner springs for optimal performance. Generally, the Corvette will 
perform best with a relatively low-rake setup. See the section on 
Aerodynamic Targets for more information on setting optimum 
ride heights.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension. Engaging the bump rubbers on the rear can 
keep the chassis off the track in high-load situations to keep the 
car from bottoming out on the track, like Daytona, but due to the 
increased stiffness it can make the car more difficult to control when 
cornering or during throttle application.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. When changing springs on 
this car, the spring perch is automatically adjusted to maintain the 
bump rubber gap and return the car to the ride height it had before 
the change.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons: firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and, secondly, the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that 
the values are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at 
the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels are 
twice as powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the 
car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised 
to keep the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or 
asymmetric handling behavior.
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the car when loaded into the world.
ARB BLADES
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) Blades (or arms) can be adjusted to tune 
the suspension roll stiffness. This option changes the orientation of 
the ARB blades and are given numerical values for simplicity, with 6 
being the softest option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value 
is decreased to the minimum setting of 0. Stiffer blade settings will 
increase rear roll stiffness and induce oversteer while softer blade 
settings will reduce rear roll stiffness and reduce oversteer.
REAR WING ANGLE
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the forward gear ratios in the transmission.
Four choices are available: IMSA, FIA, Le Mans, and Daytona.
The IMSA gear stack is more suited to high-downforce tracks where 
top speeds are low while the FIA gear stack is better for faster, 
medium-downforce tracks. The Le Mans and Daytona gear stacks 
are for low-downforce tracks where speeds are very high, with the 
Le Mans gear stack producing the highest top speed.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treated as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces. Adding friction 
faces will induce off-throttle understeer and on-throttle oversteer, 
reducing friction faces will reduce these effects. 
DIFFERENTIAL PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners. and brake in low to mid speed 
corners.wing angle. This setting on the Chassis page is linked to the 
Rear Wing Angle setting in the Aero Calculator section, changing one 
setting will also change the other.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS - PENSKE 4-WA Y
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low speed compression (LSC) affects how resistant the shock is 
to compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces.
This adjustment is a bleed screw where 0 clicks (fully closed) is 
maximum damping (most resistance to compression) and 30
clicks is minimum damping (least resistance to compression).
Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a
faster transfer of weight to the front or rear of the car during 
transient movements such as braking and direction change
with increased damping usually increasing the cars tendency
to understeer on throttle application.
On the front end of the car, increasing LSC will induce understeer 
under braking and whenever the front suspension is compressing. 
On the rear, more LSC will increase traction on throttle and when 
the rear suspension is in compression, which can be perceived as 
understeer in extreme cases.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION
High speed compression (HSC) affects the shock’s behavior at 
faster damper shaft speeds, usually attributed to curb strikes and 
bumps in the track’s surface. The 0 setting is maximum damping 
and 22 is the minimum. More high speed compression will cause 
the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while less HSC will 
allow the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. HSC is important for proper 
roll, pitch & heave control of the chassis.
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low speed rebound (LSR) damping controls the stiffness of the 
shock while extending at lower damper shaft speeds, typically 
during body movement as a result of driver inputs. This adjustment 
is a bleed screw where 0 clicks (fully closed) is maximum damping 
and 30 clicks is minimum damping. Higher rebound values will resist 
expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound stiffness will result in improved platform 
control for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response 
but can result in the tire losing complete contact with the track 
surface if the suspension can’t extend fast enough with reduced 
loads. 
On the front end, higher LSR settings will hold the front of the car 
down longer during acceleration but can induce understeer on 
throttle application or over crests. On the rear of the car, more LSR 
will stabilize the car under braking but can induce understeer if set 
too aggressively.
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound (HSR) controls the shock in extension after 
bumps and curb strikes. The 0 setting is maximum damping and 22 
is the minimum. Higher forces will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
quickly. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in 
response to driver inputs, HSR is important for proper chassis 
aerodynamic response to circuit inputs.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups:
Baseline is a 100% fuel load setup which is intended solely for 
loading the car. As such, this setup should always pass tech 
inspection at every fuel load and track (Except Nürburgring 
Nordschleife configurations where ‘nuburgring_sprint/endurance’ 
should be used) but will not provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition. 
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended to 
start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating the 
other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track may 
benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum 
speed reached.
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Sebring International Raceway High
Daytona International Speedway Low/Medium Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Sonoma Raceway High
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Hungaroring High Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Lime Rock Park High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series and 
is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations.
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +9.5
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 37.5 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 57.5 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +0.5
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1.5 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +4.0 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +1.5 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -4.0 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed.
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | USER MANUAL
CHEVROLET CORVETTE Z06 GT3.R | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on throttle 
oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, less 
off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.