--- PAGE 1 ---

1
DALLARA IR18 
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Tire Data » 11
 Aero » 12
Tires & Aero » 11
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
 Aero Calculator » 15
Chassis » 16
 General » 16
 Engine & Hybrid » 24
 Front Corners » 18
 Front » 17
 Gears & Differential » 25
 Rear Corners » 20
 Rear » 21
Dampers » 23
Drivetrain » 24
Setup Tips » 26
SETUP TIPS
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dashboard » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Dallara IR18! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
DALLARA IR18 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE A-ARM PUSHROD WITH THIRD 
SPRING (FRONT AND REAR)
TURBOCHARGED V6 
WITH PUSH-TO-PASS
LENGTH
5000 mm
196.9 in
WIDTH
2011 mm
79 in
DISPLACEMENT
2.2 Liters
134.3 CID
TORQUE
300 lb-ft
410 Nm
POWER
700 bhp
522 kW
WHEELBASE
3023-3073 mm
119-121 in
DRY WEIGHT
845 kg
1862 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
900 kg
1984 lbs
RPM LIMIT
12000

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
DALLARA IR18 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to
become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have 
provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced by 
these cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper 
racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a 
number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in 
the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
DALLARA IR18 | INTRODUCTION
 
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
Left Cluster
MAP Current engine map setting
REGEN Current Regen level
RARB Rear ARB setting
FARB Front ARB setting
WJ POS Weight Jacker setting
BIAS Current Brake Bias setting
Right Cluster
OT Push To Pass time remaining in seconds
Fuel Fuel remaining in Gallons
MPG/LPL Current fuel economy calculation in Miles Per Gallon or Liters Per Lap
DEPLOY Current Deploy level
Tire Temp Live tire temperatures in °F or °C
Middle
Gear Indicator The large number in the center of the display is the currently selected gear
Laptime Previously completed lap time
Delta Difference between the current lap and the session best lap
Lap Counter Number of laps completed in the session

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
PUSH-TO-PASS
SHIFT LIGHTS
When the Pit Limiter is active all of the shift lights will flash in blue and the display will have a yellow border. A color-coded box in the
lower right will appear under a brake bias display, with Green indicating a speed below pit limit, yellow being at the pit limit, and red
indicates speeding.
When Push-to-Pass is active, the inner pairs of status LEDs will illuminate in green and the display will have a green border.
SHIFT LIGHTS
The uppermost row of LED lights above the display are shift
lights linked to engine RPM. As RPM approaches the maximum,
the lights will begin to illuminate left-to-right starting with green, 
then yellow, then red. Once all ten lights have illuminated and RPM 
climbs further, the lights will turn blue and begin flashing to signal an 
upshift is necessary.
CAUTION LIGHTS
If a Caution period begins, the right-side cluster of three LEDs on 
either side of the main display will illuminate in yellow.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | DASH PAGES
HYBRID STATUS LIGHT
HYBRID STATE OF CHARGE 
A three-LED cluster on the left side of the display indicates whether the hybrid system is in Deploy or Regeneration mode. During Regeneration 
(either deceleration or manually-activated regen) the lights will illuminate in Red. During Deploy, the lights will illuminate in Green.
Two LED clusters on either side of the cockpit display the current State of Charge in the hybrid Supercapacitor. When the system is not 
deploying, the LEDs will be colored red, yellow, and green to indicate the state of charge. A full charge is all eight LEDs illuminated with lights 
extinguishing as charge is depleted. The lights will keep this color scheme during energy regeneration.
When the system is deploying energy, the lights will change to 7 blue and 1 red LED but still display the system’s State of Charge

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE COMPOUND
For road courses the IR18 allows one of two tire compounds to
be used. The Primary compound is harder, providing less grip
but longer tire life, while the Alternate compound is softer,
providing more grip but shorter tire life. This option is not
allowed on ovals.
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat 
buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures. Minimum pressures will change 
based on track type, with ovals typically having a higher right-side 
minimum tire pressure than the left-side tires.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold 
and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way 
should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in 
handling balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should 
be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature. Careful attention should be paid to 
the Hot Pressures to extract the most performance out of the tires 
during a race.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS O M I
The temperatures measured in the garage are tire carcass 
temperatures, measured within the tread rubber itself. Wheel Loads 
and the amount of work a tire is doing on the track is reflected in 
the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze the 
car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful for directly 
comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer 
temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment and tire 
air pressure while on track.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, but should never be prioritized over tire temperatures 
when analyzing handling balance.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
WING FLAP CONFIG
The number of front wing upper flaps is mandated per Indycar rules 
based on the track type. For Road Courses the wing will have two 
upper flaps and for Ovals the front wing will have one upper flap.
WING MAINPLANE EXT
The Wing Mainplane Extension adds small elements to the front 
wing’s mainplane to increase downforce generated by the wing 
assembly. Changing this setting to “ON” will increase Front 
downforce and slightly increase drag, while setting this to “OFF” 
will shift aero balance rearward and decrease drag slightly. See the 
“Wing Wicker” section for more information on this feature.
WING WICKER
A small wicker (or “Gurney Flap”) can be added to the trailing edge 
of the front wing upper-most flap. The options available for this 
setting are track dependent: 
-Road Course - A single wicker on the uppermost front wing 
flap is allowed
-Large Oval, no Wing Mainplane Extension - A wicker may be added 
to the front wing trailing edge. The wicker can be added in “Steps”, 
with each step indicating how many thirds of the front wing span has 
a wicker on it. For example, the Step 2 wicker will cover 2/3 of the 
front wing span, Step 3 will be a full-span wicker.
-Large Oval, Wing Mainplane Extension - If the Wing Mainplane 
Extension is installed, Steps 2 and 3 are not an option. If no wicker 
is chosen, the Wing Mainplane Extension will span the inner half of 
the front wing. If the Step 1 wicker is chosen, an outer extension and 
wicker will be installed, creating a full-span Mainplane Extension with 
a small wicker on the outer half.
-Short Oval - Wicker not allowed.
FRONT AERO
WING ENDPLATE ANGLE
The wing endplate assembly can be rotated relative to the wing 
mainplane up to 3° positive or negative. Higher Wing Endplate 
Angles will increase downforce and shift aero forward, but also 
change what Wing Mainplane angles are available. Higher Endplate 
Angles will allow for higher Wing Mainplane angles (but also a higher 
minimum angle) while lower Endplate Angles will allow for much 
lower Mainplane angles. This option is not available for Road Courses 
and Short Ovals.
WING ANGLE
The Wing Angle setting changes the angle of the front wing’s 
mainplane relative to horizontal. Higher angles will increase the 
downforce generated at the front wing, shift aero forward, and 
increase drag, while lower angles will decrease downforce, shift aero 
rearward, and reduce drag. Depending on the chosen Wing Endplate 
Angle, it is possible to run negative front wing angles. These settings 
still produce some downforce, but greatly reduce drag for high-
speed ovals such as Indianapolis.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
RADIATOR INLET
Both sidepod inlets can be blocked off partially to decrease 
drag when desired. Decreasing the opening size (More “closed” 
percentage in the garage setting) will reduce drag with a slight 
reduction in downforce, but will increase engine temperatures due 
to reduced cooling. The 77% Closed option is only available for 
Qualifying sessions and is not allowed for Race sessions.
TRAILING EDGE WICKER
A 1” tall wicker can be installed on the upper edge of the rear 
diffuser at Road Courses and Short Ovals to increase downforce 
and shift aero rearward, but will increase drag. This option is not 
available for Large Ovals.
BODY AERO
DIFFUSER
The rear diffuser assembly can be customized via three options:
Sidewalls - The outermost walls of the diffuser can be installed, 
removed, or trimmed to change the overall downforce and drag 
produced by the diffuser. Removing the sidewalls will reduce 
drag with a large reduction in downforce. “Trimmed” sidewalls are 
partially-removed sidewalls and provide more downforce than “OFF”, 
but less than “ON”.
Strakes - The diffuser can be fitted with internal vertical Strakes to 
increase the diffuser’s efficiency and downforce produced. Installing 
the diffuser strakes will increase downforce and drag. A third option, 
“Z+15” installs a 15mm extension to the bottom of the diffuser 
strakes to further increase downforce.
For Large Ovals the options for the diffuser are mandated so that 
both the Sidewalls and Strakes are off.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
WING FLAP CONFIG
For Road Courses, the rear wing can be configured with one or 
two upper flaps. The Double Plane configuration will generate a 
significant amount of downforce and shift aero rearward at the cost 
of high drag, while the Single Plane option will greatly reduce both 
downforce and drag but shift aero forward. For ovals, only the Single 
Plane option is available.
WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle setting controls the angle of the rear wing’s 
uppermost flap. Higher angles will produce more downforce, more 
drag, and shift aero rearward, while lower angles will reduce both 
downforce and drag but shift aero forward. Available wing angle 
ranges will change based on the wing assembly (Road Course/Short 
Oval or Large Oval) as well as the number of flaps chosen in the Flap 
Config setting.
REAR AERO
WING WICKER
A trailing edge wicker may be installed on the rear wing for most 
tracks. This adds downforce and shifts aero rearward, but adds 
drag. The rules on what can be used are track-dependent:
Road Course / Short Oval - Can be run without a wicker or with a 
full-span ⅜” wicker
Large Ovals (except Indianapolis) - Rear wing wicker is not allowed
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Oval - A wicker can be installed on the 
rear wing at Indianapolis that is ⅜” tall but has various widths of 13.2 
inches, 24.5 inches, or a full-span wicker. This wicker is situated on 
the centerline of the wing and extends equally on either side of the 
centerline. This wicker can be removed as well, such as in Qualifying 
when opting for a very low-drag configuration.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
AVG FRONT / REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed settings are inputs for the aero 
calculator to determine the approximate aero performance with the 
chosen aero package. Changing these values changes the displayed 
Front Downforce value as well as the Downforce-to-Drag ratio in the 
calculator. To check on-track performance, use the average of the 
front ride height sensors (Front RH) and the average of the rear ride 
height sensors (Rear RH) from telemetry. These can also be changed 
to observe how rake will affect aerodynamic performance prior to 
ride height or spring changes.
AVG TILT AT SPEED
The Tilt at Speed setting is a value of how much the chassis is rolled 
left or right. For best results, calculate (from on-track telemetry data) 
an average of the left-side ride heights and an average of the right-
side ride heights. The difference between these averages is the Tilt 
at Speed value to use in the calculator.
AERO CALCULATOR
AERO BALANCE
Aero Balance represents the percentage of total downforce that 
is working on the front axle. This value is calculated with the At 
Speed ride height and tilt values, as well as the chosen aerodynamic 
options, and should be monitored during the chassis setup process 
to prevent unexpected results. To ensure chassis adjustments don’t 
become masked by aerodynamic changes, always refer to this value 
to ensure it remains constant before and after aerodynamic 
setup changes.
DOWNFORCE TO DRAG
The Downforce to Drag ratio is a relation of how much downforce 
is produced for one unit of drag. Generally, a larger Downforce to 
Drag ratio would imply the car is working efficiently and producing 
large amounts of downforce for given drag numbers, while a lower 
Downforce to Drag value is typically seen on more slippery, low-drag 
aerodynamic packages.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
GENERAL
WHEELBASE
For some track configurations the overall wheelbase can be adjusted 
to change the car’s handling behavior and responsiveness. On Large 
Ovals and Indianapolis, the wheelbase can either be set to 121 or 
119 inches. The longer option will result in a more directionally-
stable car that is less responsive, but less sensitive to aero balance 
and longitudinal weight shifting. The shorter option will be more 
responsive, which is good for tighter corners, but will be more 
sensitive to fore-aft aero and weight shifting. For Road Courses and 
Short Ovals, the only option available is the 121 inch setting.
BRAKE PRESSURE
If overall downforce is increased or decreased, the overall
braking pressure may need to be changed to suit. Generally,
higher downforce levels can use higher braking pressures
without wheel lockups, while lower downforce levels will need 
reduced brake pressures. 
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
The Brake Pressure Bias setting determines how much of the overall 
brake line pressure is sent to the front wheels. Higher percentages 
apply more braking pressure to the front wheels which can induce 
understeer under braking, while reducing the percentage will shift 
braking force rearward and induce oversteer under braking. If the 
bias is set too far forward or rearward it can cause wheel lockups 
under heavy braking, so it should be set to a value that allows for 
heavy braking without lockups on either axle.
STEERING PINION
To fit various driver preferences, the Steering Pinion can be changed 
to alter how fast or responsive the steering is. Higher pinion teeth 
numbers will result in a faster steering response which can make the 
car feel more twitchy with small steering inputs, while lower pinion 
values will slow the steering and make it less responsive to inputs.
STEERING OFFSET
On oval tracks it’s not uncommon for the chassis to be set up 
asymmetrically, causing the car to pull to one side and the driver to 
hold some amount of opposite steering to counter it. If desired, the 
Steering Offset setting can be changed to center the steering wheel 
down the straights. Positive values will reposition the steering wheel 
in a clockwise direction, negative values will position the steering 
wheel in a counter-clockwise direction.
NOSE WEIGHT
Nose Weight is the percentage of the vehicle’s total weight that is 
situated on the front axle. This is used primarily to balance front-to-
rear aero distribution, and in most cases will produce a directionally-
stable car when set higher than the aero balance percentage. Less 
Nose Weight will shift weight rearward, inducing oversteer as well 
as helping the car change directions more easily. More Nose Weight 
will create a more directionally-stable chassis, but can induce 
understeer if set too far forward.
CROSSWEIGHT
Crossweight is the percentage of the car’s total weight situated 
over the Right-Front and Left-Rear wheels. For the IR18, this value is 
represented as a difference in weight across the front axle relative to 
the Left-Front wheel. For example, if the readout shows “-100 (lbs or 
N) to the Left Front”, the Right-Front wheel has 100 lbs or Newtons 
more than the Left-Front wheel when in the garage. Higher Cross 
Weight values (Lower or More Negative to the Left-Front) will induce 
understeer in left-hand corners and oversteer in right-hand corners. 
Lower Cross Weight values (Higher to the Left-Front) will induce 
oversteer in left-hand corners and understeer in right-hand corners. 

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
3RD SPRING
For Road Courses a Third Spring element, in the form of a polymer 
bump stop, can be added to the suspension. This element works 
only in heave (vertical suspension travel) and can be set to prevent 
the car from dropping too far under heavy aerodynamic loads or 
vertical forces from track shape, such as dips or turn banking. Using 
the Third Spring in this way allows for softer corner springs to be 
used (since they won’t have to carry the full aerodynamic loads), 
increasing mechanical grip while cornering. The Third Spring is not 
available on Ovals.
3RD SPRING GAP
The Third Spring Gap is the distance the third spring element must 
compress before the third spring bump stop is engaged with higher 
gap values requiring more vertical travel before engagement. The 
Third Spring is a polymer bump stop and thus increases in rate as it 
is compressed, with low compression values having low spring rate 
and high compression values having a very high spring rate. This 
can be used to fine-tune the suspension’s behavior over bumps in 
the track surface at high speeds and high aerodynamic loads to help 
reduce changes in wheel load in these situations.
BAR DIAMETER
The front Anti-Roll Bar is available in three options: Large diameter, 
Small diameter, and None (ARB removed). The Large diameter 
option will stiffen the front suspension in roll, reducing mechanical 
grip and inducing understeer, but will try to keep the chassis flatter 
when cornering. The Small diameter option will reduce roll stiffness, 
increasing mechanical grip across the front axle and reducing 
understeer, but will allow the chassis to roll more. Removing the ARB 
will dramatically reduce roll stiffness but can provide a large increase 
in front end mechanical grip and increase oversteer. If the ARB is 
removed, all other front ARB settings have no effect on the chassis.
BAR BLADES
The front ARB bar blades can be made of either Steel or Titanium 
(Ti) to alter the stiffness of the ARB assembly. The Steel blades 
are stiffer, slightly increasing roll stiffness can induce understeer. 
The Titanium blades are softer and will slightly reduce roll stiffness, 
which can reduce understeer. This adjustment has no other effect on 
the chassis, such as one option being lighter than the other. 
BAR BLADE POSITION
The ARB blade orientation can be changed to one of six options to 
alter the stiffness of the ARB assembly. Represented numerically 
from softest (1) to stiffest (6), higher values result in a stiffer ARB 
while lower values soften the ARB. Stiffer settings will induce 
understeer while softer settings will reduce understeer. This 
adjustment is available as an in-car adjustment in the F8 Black Box 
as “ARB F”.
DROP-LINK POSITION
The ARB drop-links can be mounted in one of two positions that will 
alter the ARB stiffness. The “Wide (Slow)” option will reduce how 
fast the ARB is loaded, reducing the effective stiffness of the ARB 
assembly and reducing understeer. Changing to the “Narrow (Fast)” 
option will speed up the ARB, increasing effective stiffness and 
increasing understeer.
ARB PRELOAD
Adjustments to the chassis will often result in small static loads 
being applied to the ARB assemblies. The ARB Preload setting can 
be used to remove these loads to prevent any asymmetric behavior 
from the ARB. On Ovals it can be used to apply a static load to the 
bar and manage crossweight changes in banking transitions.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
Corner Weight represents the weight on each wheel when sitting 
in the garage. This can be used to visualize the weight distribution 
under static conditions and help with identifying changes to weight 
distribution through the setup process.
RIDE HEIGHT
Front Ride Height is a measurement from the ground to a reference 
point on the chassis projected to the center of the front axle. 
Since this value doesn’t necessarily represent the lowest point on 
the chassis it does not specifically represent the chassis’ ground 
clearance, but is instead a reference for setup and aero work.
It is important to have the ride height low for both aero and 
mechanical grip, but high enough that the chassis doesn’t make 
significant contact with the race track over the course of a lap. 
Raising and lowering the front ride height will affect aerodynamic 
balance, overall downforce levels, and drag, so consult the Aero 
Calculator to see how a ride height change will influence handling 
when changing this value.
PUSHROD LENGTH
To adjust the Ride Height, shims can be added to or removed from 
the front suspension push rods to change their length. This is a very 
fine adjustment, however close attention should be paid to Corner 
Weights and Cross Weight, especially when making asymmetric 
adjustments, to ensure weight distribution isn’t altered while 
changing the Pushrod Length.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how 
much force (Pounds or Newtons) required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front 
end, stiffer springs can keep the front wing from moving too much 
under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease mechanical 
grip and can cause understeer in slower corners. Softer springs will 
result in more front end movement, which can hurt aero, but will 
increase mechanical grip in the front axle and reduce understeer (or 
cause oversteer, in extreme cases).
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Higher 
negative camber values will provide more cornering forces in the 
direction of the tire’s camber (more aggressive turn-in response),
but may reduce braking capability at high camber angles. 
Since the Dallara IR18 runs on both ovals and road courses, the 
desired camber settings will change between track types. For road 
courses it is best to have all four wheels set to negative camber 
values. For Ovals, the right-side tires should be set to negative 
camber values while the left-side tires should be set to positive 
values. The difference in camber values on ovals will often change 
from track to track due to varying levels of load seen on each tire. 
Generally, if a tire sees less load it will not be able to work with as 
much camber as a more heavily-loaded tire.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CASTER
Caster is the angle between vertical and a line drawn through
the upper and lower ball-joints on the front suspension, essentially 
representing the steering axis of the front suspension.
Positive caster indicates the upper ball joint is farther back
than the lower ball joint, while negative caster would indicate the 
upper ball joint is ahead of the lower ball joint but this is not allowed 
on the IR18. Caster can have many effects that must be considered 
during the setup process. 
Increasing caster will increase the pneumatic trail effect in the tire, 
which will impart directional stability and create a steering feel that 
seems “heavier” to the driver, with the steering wanting to straighten 
itself as steering input is released. It will also introduce suspension 
jacking forces as the angle is increased, causing more load to be 
shifted to the inside front wheel when the steering is turned.
This decreases crossweight on turn-in and mechanically helps to 
turn the car in but this also increases how much the chassis rolls to 
the outside when steering is applied. This effect can be very helpful 
in slow corners, however in high-speed corners the aero effect 
caused by the chassis roll can be detrimental. Decreasing the caster 
will have the opposite effect for all conditions created by increasing 
the caster value.
For Ovals it will often be desirable to run asymmetric caster values, 
with the left-front wheel running a lower amount of positive caster 
than the right-front wheel. This results in a natural tendency for the 
chassis to steer to the left as well as decreasing crossweight on 
turn-in, which can be very beneficial for ovals. However, as caster 
increases there is a small increase in rolling drag on the tire, which 
can be detrimental for large ovals where top speed is crucial.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of 
the tires. This setting can change the front tire slip angle in a turn, 
with toe-out providing better turn-in response but less straight-
line stability and increased tire temperature and wear. Lower toe 
values can provide a quicker steering response, but may produce an 
unstable steering feeling. Due to highly asymmetric loading on ovals, 
it’s not uncommon to have wildly different front Toe values on each 
front wheel to manage slip angle under loads. Generally, the right-
front wheel will be able to utilize more toe-out than the left-front 
since it will see a much higher load in the corners.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
Corner Weight represents the weight on each wheel when sitting 
in the garage. This can be used to visualize the weight distribution 
under static conditions and help with identifying changes to weight 
distribution through the setup process.
RIDE HEIGHT
Rear Ride Height is a measurement from the ground to a reference 
point on the chassis centerline. For the garage, only one rear 
ride height is shown while telemetry output will show two rear 
corner heights similar to the front heights. Since this value doesn’t 
necessarily represent the lowest point on the chassis it does not 
specifically represent the chassis’ ground clearance, but is instead 
a reference for setup and aero work. It is important to have the ride 
height low for both aero and mechanical grip, but high enough that 
the chassis doesn’t make significant contact with the race track 
over the course of a lap. Raising and lowering the rear ride height 
will affect aerodynamic balance, overall downforce levels, and drag, 
so consult the Aero Calculator to see how a ride height change will 
influence handling when changing this value.
PUSHROD LENGTH
To adjust the Ride Height, shims can be added to or removed from 
the rear suspension push rods to change their length. This is a very 
fine adjustment, however close attention should be paid to Corner 
Weights and Cross Weight, especially when making asymmetric 
adjustments, to ensure weight distribution isn’t altered while 
changing the Pushrod Length. For the rear it is especially important 
to pay attention to the corner weights since changes to left-to-right 
tilt can’t be identified due to only having one ride height value 
for the rear.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how 
much force (Pounds or Newtons) required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has 
a major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the 
rear end, stiffer springs can keep the rear of the car from moving 
too much under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease 
mechanical grip and can cause oversteer in slower corners.
Softer springs will result in more rear end movement, which can 
hurt aero, but will increase mechanical grip across the rear axle and 
reduce oversteer (or cause understeer, in extreme cases).

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center
of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than
the bottom. Higher negative camber values will provide more 
cornering forces in the direction of the tire’s camber (more stability
in high-speed cornering), but may reduce on-throttle traction at 
high camber angles. 
Since the Dallara IR18 runs on both ovals and road courses, the 
desired camber settings will change between track types. For road 
courses it is best to have all four wheels set to negative camber 
values. For Ovals, the right-side tires should be set to negative 
camber values while the left-side tires should be set to positive 
values. The difference in camber values on ovals will often change 
from track to track due to varying levels of load seen on each tire. 
Generally, if a tire sees less load it will not be able to work with as 
much camber as a more heavily-loaded tire.
FUEL LEVEL
This shows how much fuel will be in the fuel tank when the car 
is loaded in the sim.
3RD SPRING
For Road Courses a Third Spring element, in the form of a polymer 
bump stop, can be added to the suspension. This element works 
only in heave (vertical suspension travel) and can be set to prevent 
the car from dropping too far under heavy aerodynamic loads or 
vertical forces from track shape, such as dips or turn banking.
Using the Third Spring in this way allows for softer corner springs to 
be used (since they won’t have to carry the full aerodynamic loads), 
increasing mechanical grip while cornering. The Third Spring is not 
available on Ovals.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of 
the tires. This setting can change the rear tire slip angle, with toe-in 
providing more straight-line stability but reduce the car’s tendency 
to rotate into a corner. Lower toe-in values (moving towards toe-
out) can provide a quicker steering response, but may produce an 
unstable steering feeling. Due to highly asymmetric loading on ovals, 
it’s not uncommon to have wildly different rear Toe values on each 
front wheel to manage slip angle under loads. Rear-steer can also 
be influenced by the rear Toe values by toeing out the right-rear 
wheel and toeing in the left-rear wheel. This will increase yaw in 
corners, which can provide aerodynamic benefits at high speed, but 
can induce oversteer on throttle application.
3RD SPRING GAP
The Third Spring Gap is the distance the third spring element must 
compress before the third spring bump stop is engaged with higher 
gap values requiring more vertical travel before engagement.
The Third Spring is a polymer bump stop and thus increases in rate 
as it is compressed, with low compression values having low spring 
rate and high compression values having a very high spring rate. 
This can be used to fine-tune the suspension’s behavior over bumps 
in the track surface at high speeds and high aerodynamic loads to 
help reduce changes in wheel load in these situations.
WEIGHT JACKER
The Weight Jacker is a device mounted to the right-rear spring
that can be used to adjust the cross weight while in the car.
Positive values will preload the spring and decrease the crossweight 
while negative values will unload the spring and increase the 
crossweight. The corresponding ride height changes will occur as 
well, with positive values raising the right-rear and negative values 
lowering the right rear. This adjustment is not available on road 
courses, and must be set to zero for the car to pass tech in the 
garage, but is available as an in-car adjustment on the F8 Black Box 
as “Weight Jacker”.
REAR

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR ARB & GRAPHICS
ARB DIAMETER
The rear Anti-Roll Bar is available in three options: Large diameter, 
Small diameter, and None (ARB removed). The Large diameter 
option will stiffen the rear suspension in roll, reducing mechanical 
grip and inducing oversteer, but will try to keep the chassis flatter 
when cornering. The Small diameter option will reduce roll stiffness, 
increasing mechanical grip across the rear axle and reducing 
oversteer, but will allow the chassis to roll more. Removing the ARB 
will dramatically reduce roll stiffness but can provide a large increase 
in rear end mechanical grip and increase understeer. If the rear 
ARB is removed and the rear springs are too soft there is a chance 
of lifting the inside front tire on turn-in, which can result in a wheel 
lockup under braking. If the ARB is removed, all other front ARB 
settings have no effect on the chassis.
ARB DROP-LINK POSITION
The ARB drop-links can be mounted in one of two positions that will 
alter the ARB stiffness. The “Wide (Slow)” option will reduce how 
fast the ARB is loaded, reducing the effective stiffness of the ARB 
assembly and reducing oversteer. Changing to the “Narrow (Fast)” 
option will speed up the ARB, increasing effective stiffness and 
increasing oversteer.
ARB BLADES
The ARB blade orientation can be changed to one of six options to 
alter the stiffness of the ARB assembly. Represented numerically 
from softest (1) to stiffest (6), higher values result in a stiffer ARB 
while lower values soften the ARB. Stiffer settings will induce 
oversteer while softer settings will reduce oversteer. This adjustment 
is available as an in-car adjustment in the F8 Black Box as “ARB R”.
ARB PRELOAD
Adjustments to the chassis will often result in small static loads 
being applied to the ARB assemblies. The ARB Preload setting can 
be used to remove these loads to prevent any asymmetric behavior 
from the ARB. On Ovals it can be used to apply a static load to the 
bar and manage crossweight changes in banking transitions.
VINYL WRAP ON WHEEL RIMS
Checking the Vinyl Wrap on Wheel Rims will enable a section of the 
paint template and apply it to the wheel rims. This will result in the 
wheels showing a color other than what was chosen for the wheels 
in the iRacing Paint Booth. This has no effect on car performance.
VINYL WRAP ON SUSPENSION
Enabling Vinyl Wrap on Suspension will apply a section of the paint 
template to the suspension arms, replacing the Carbon Fiber texture 
with a solid color. This has no effect on car performance.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LOW SPEED COMP
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is
to compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving
at relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a
result of driver input and building aerodynamic forces.
Higher values will increase compression resistance under these
low-speed conditions more quickly, lower values will result in a
more compliant shock. From a mechanical grip standpoint, more 
front low-speed compression will produce understeer under braking 
while more rear low-speed compression can reduce on-throttle 
traction to help rotation. For aerodynamics, more low-speed 
compression will slow vertical movement of either end of the car 
under braking or acceleration.
HIGH SPEED COMP
High Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to kerb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to 
be stiffer in these situations (good for keeping the chassis from 
contacting the track), while lower values will allow the suspension to 
absorb these bumps better. Lower values will help with compliance 
over rough surfaces but may hurt the aerodynamic platform’s 
consistency around the track.
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
and changing aerodynamic loads. Higher rebound values will resist 
expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic 
attitude but can result in the wheels being unloaded when the 
suspension can’t expand enough to maintain proper contact with 
the track. When tuning for handling, higher front low-speed rebound 
can increase on-throttle mechanical understeer while lower values 
will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce understeer. 
The rear is the opposite, with more low-speed rebound reducing 
rear grip under braking and less low-speed rebound will maintain 
rear grip better while the chassis is pitching forward. Lower rebound 
settings are usually better for tire wear but can be a detriment to 
aerodynamic consistency. Higher rebound can maintain a better 
aerodynamic platform, but can lead to unwanted oscillations due to 
the wheel bouncing off of the track surface when the suspension 
can’t extend fast enough.
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and kerb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. This value should be set low enough that the wheels can 
return after a bump or kerb strike but not high enough that the tire 
becomes unloaded when the suspension can’t expand.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | IN-CAR / SYSTEMS
DRIVETRAIN
ENGINE & HYBRID
ENGINE MAP SETTING
The Engine Map Setting can be used to alter the amount of fuel sent 
to the engine for fuel-saving purposes.
Setting 1 - This setting provides maximum power but the highest 
fuel consumption.
Settings 2-5 - These settings are used for saving fuel. Engine power 
is reduced as the setting value increases, but the amount of fuel 
used is also reduced.
Setting 6 - This setting is a full-power setting but with a more linear 
throttle map than settings 1-5 and setting 7.
Setting 7 - This will also provide full power, but with a more 
digressive throttle map than settings 1 and 6. 
Setting 8 - Meant for cautions and pace laps, Setting 8 will 
dramatically reduce fuel flow and power.
TURBO BOOST PRESSURE
For the Indianapolis Motor Speedway oval the engine turbo can
be set to a different mapping that will produce more power.
This engine mode will generate more heat and use more fuel and 
isn’t recommended for Race sessions.
REGEN LEVEL
Sets how much automatic regeneration the hybrid system will have 
when lifting off the throttle, with 1.0 being full regen and values 
scaling down the rate from the full amount like a percentage
(0.5 is 50% of full regen).
DEPLOY LEVEL
Sets how much the system will deploy under manual deployment 
activation. As with the Regen setting, 1.0 is full deployment and each 
setting below is a fraction of full.

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | IN-CAR / SYSTEMS
GEARBOX
DIFFERENTIAL (RC ONL Y)
FIRST - SIXTH GEAR
All six gears in the transmission can be changed to suit track 
conditions or driver preferences. Each gear is represented by 
the ratio of teeth on the input and output gears, with lower ratios 
reducing acceleration but increasing top speed and higher ratios 
increasing acceleration but reducing top speed. Once a gear is 
chosen and the “Apply” button is pressed, the expected top speed 
the gear is capable of is updated beside the ratio choice.
The rear differential for the IR18 can be adjusted through multiple 
settings, all of which can greatly affect the car’s stability, on-throttle 
performance, and handling characteristics. These adjustments 
are only available at Road Course and Street Circuits, with the car 
running a non-adjustable Spool rear-end at Ovals. 
CLUTCH PLATES
The differential Clutch Plates are a way to greatly increase the forces 
from the differential that attempt to keep the two rear axles locked 
in sync. The number of clutch plates used will multiply the locking 
force by the number of plates in use when compared to a single set 
of clutch plates. For example, 4 clutch plates will have 4 times the 
locking force of one plate, 12 will have 12 times, etc. Higher locking 
forces (more plates) will increase the amount of understeer seen 
when off the throttle under deceleration for corner entry, but will 
increase oversteer on exit when applying the throttle. Fewer plates 
will increase oversteer on corner entry while decelerating but add 
understeer when applying the throttle.
FINAL DRIVE
The gear ratio on the differential is represented by the Final Drive 
ratio. This gear ratio alters the entire acceleration and speed profile 
of the car without changing the individual gears in the transmission. 
As with the transmission gears, higher ratios will increase 
acceleration but reduce top speed, while lower ratios will allow for a 
higher top speed but reduce acceleration. Changing the Final Drive 
gear and clicking “Apply” will update the maximum speed for all six 
transmission gears.
PRELOAD
Differential Preload is a static amount of locking force that is always 
present in the differential regardless of acceleration or deceleration. 
Increasing the preload will add understeer under braking but 
oversteer on throttle application, while decreasing preload will add 
oversteer under braking but understeer on throttle application.
RAMP ANGLES
The Ramp Angles are a way to tune the differential locking on 
deceleration and acceleration with various configurations.
The Ramp Angle values are split between “coast”, or deceleration, 
and “power”, or acceleration. Lower angle values will have more 
locking force for the situation that it is associated with, while higher 
angle values will have less locking force. For the “coast” adjustment, 
more locking force (lower ramp angles) will increase understeer 
while less locking force (higher angles) will increase oversteer. 
On the “power” side, more locking force will add oversteer on 
throttle and less locking force will increase understeer. Since these 
adjustments are somewhat independent of one another and can be 
chosen independently, this is a great way to fine-tune corner entry 
and exit once the whole corner has been tuned with the Preload and 
Plate number.

--- PAGE 26 ---

26
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 27 ---

27
DALLARA IR18 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA IR18 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
GEARING
Final drive and individual gears can be adjusted to suit track 
characteristics. It is recommended you are close to the limiter 
at the endof the longest straight. Keep in mind that top speed may 
increase in draft and/or on push to pass, so allow for this RPM 
increase whenselecting gears.
AERODYNAMIC ADJUSTMENTS
Changing aero balance while adjusting front and rear flap angles 
together will add or remove downforce without significantly 
changing handling balance. If you note the aero balance percentage 
in the aero calculator before any changes you can add or remove 
overall downforce by matching that number after any changes, or 
purposely aim above or below the original percentage to change 
aerodynamic balance.
A higher aero balance value in the aero calculator indicates a more 
forward aero balance (loose/oversteer)
Mechanical Adjustments
Lower speed corners will not benefit as much from aerodynamic 
adjustments, so handling changes will come strictly from the 
suspension settings. The simplest adjustments to make are the 
ARB settings, which will greatly affect the handling balance without 
significantly compromising the aerodynamic platform
To add oversteer to low-speed corners, change to a smaller front 
bar or a larger rear bar. For a finer tuning adjustment, changing 
from Steel to Titanium blades will also induce oversteer. To induce 
understeer, run a larger front bar or a smaller rear bar, or switch from 
Titanium to Steel blades for a finer adjustment.
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Differential Preload will apply a static locking force to the differential 
and delay or extend the amount of time the rear differential is locked 
during acceleration and braking. This is an extremely effective 
adjustment to tune the car’s handling behavior during throttle release 
and application without affecting the chassis.
-- A greater diff preload will decrease rotation under braking but 
increase on throttle rotation.
-- A lower diff preload will increase rotation under braking but 
decrease on throttle rotation.
RIDE HEIGHTS AND THIRD SPRING GAP
The IR18 may bottom out under heavy load. If you find the handling is 
being upset by the car bottoming, or bottoming on a straight is adding 
too much drag, you can raise the static ride height or decrease the 
third spring gap, however this may hurt aerodynamic efficiency.
Raising ride height is achieved by increasing both the left and right 
pushrod length. Keep in mind that if the front and rear ride heights 
are not adjusted equally you will alter the aero balance. (This can be 
observed using the aero calculator) The ride heights will also increase 
slightly over the course of the race as fuel burns off and the car 
becomes lighter.
Decreasing the third spring gap makes the progressive bump 
rubbers engage earlier which increases functional spring rate. 
This can keep the car from bottoming under load, however excessive 
bump rubber engagement at mid-corner can cause handling 
instability over rough surfaces.