--- PAGE 1 ---

1
DIRT MICRO SPRINT
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Config » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 9
 Front » 10
Chassis » 10
Tires » 9 
 Front Corners » 11 
 Rear Corners » 12
 Rear » 13
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Dirt Micro Sprint! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | TECH SPECS
SOLID AXLE COILOVER FRONT / SOLID 
AXLE TORSION BAR REAR
SIDE-MOUNTED 4-STROKE 
MOTORCYCLE ENGINE
LENGTH
2870mm
113in
WIDTH
2007mm
79in
DISPLACEMENT
600 CC
36.6 CID
TORQUE
67lb-ft
91Nm
RPM LIMIT
16000 RPM 
 
POWER
160bhp
119kW
WHEELBASE
1499mm
59in
DRY WEIGHT 
WINGED
258kg
570lbs
DRY WEIGHT 
NON-WINGED
247kg
545lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER 
WINGED
372kg
820lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER 
NON-WINGED
361kg
795lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear and give it a bit of throttle 
to get underway. The Micro Sprints have five forward gears and a 
reverse gear but doesn’t require a clutch for upshifts or downshifts, 
with upshifting requiring a quick lift off the throttle and downshifting 
requiring a small blip of throttle. 
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs. If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the 
changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the 
garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver or 
everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of 
the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage 
as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
ECT - Engine coolant temperature in °C or °F
Fuel P - Fuel system pressure
Oil P - Engine oil system pressure
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
RPM - Engine RPM
TPS - Throttle Position in percentage of full pedal travel
Battery - Current Battery Voltage

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will generally 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat 
buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set 
to track characteristics for optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures.
TIRES 
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
while on track. These values are measured in three zones across the 
tread of the tire. The left sides of each tire should typically be the 
most heavily loaded and hottest, so the outsides of the left side tires 
and insides of right side tires.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
from the pits. For these cars and tires, wear is currently negligible, 
though this may change in the future.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
NOSE WEIGHT 
In order to meet minimum legal competition weights, lead blocks are 
installed within the chassis that can be moved to various locations 
in the car. This adjustment directly affects the Nose Weight setting 
and will have a large effect on the car’s overall handling balance, 
especially at high-speeds on larger tracks.
CROSS WEIGHT
Percentage of total static weight supported by the right front and 
left rear tires. This percentage can be adjusted by changing wheel 
loads using front coil spring or rear torsion bar preload. When 
adjusting spring preload, to maintain ride heights you should adjust 
opposing corners in conjunction. If preload is added to the right 
front and left rear, preload on the left front and right rear should be 
correspondingly reduced. Increasing cross weight generally tightens 
the car, and reducing crossweight generally loosens the car.
LEFT SIDE WEIGHT
The percentage of total weight situated over the left-side tires. 
This is not directly adjustable but can change slightly from various 
chassis adjustments.
STERING BOX RATIO
The Steering Ratio will alter how “fast” the steering feels to the 
driver. This ratio is a representation of how much movement is 
applied to the steering box input shaft to produce a standard amount 
of movement on the steering box output shaft. For example, a “10:1” 
can be thought of as requiring 10° of steering input from the driver 
to produce 1° of steering output from the steering box. Increasing 
the value to 12:1 would require 12° of steering input to get the same 
output, and this would feel as if the steering has become slower and 
less responsive. Conversely, reducing the ratio will make the steering 
feel faster and more darty for the driver. This is purely a driver 
preference setting and has no effect on the rest of the chassis setup 
or its handling characteristics.
STEERING OFFSET
Due to the asymmetric nature of the Dirt Micro Sprint, the steering 
can often have a “pull” to the left on the straights. To counter this 
effect and re-center the steering wheel, an offset can be applied in 
the garage. Positive values will rotate the steering wheel to the right 
and negative values will rotate the steering wheel to the left. This 
offset will not affect the steering or the chassis in any way other 
than the steering wheel’s orientation at neutral steering input.
FRONT TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish
NOSE WING ANGLE (WINGED MICRO SPRINT ONLY)
The Nose Wing Angle can be changed to alter the car’s aerodynamic 
handling balance and overall downforce level. Higher angles will 
shift aerodynamic balance forward and increase overall downforce, 
lower angles will shift the balance rearward and decrease overall 
downforce.
TOP WING ANGLE (WINGED MICRO SPRINT ONLY)
The Top Wing angle can be adjusted to control overall downforce 
levels with a small change in aerodynamic balance. Increasing the 
angle will increase overall downforce level and drag, while reducing 
the angle will decrease overall downforce and drag.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
TOP WING POSITION (WINGED MICRO SPRINT ONLY)
The Top Wing can be moved fore and aft to control the aerodynamic 
balance without affecting the overall downforce level. Setting the 
wing to the highest value (0.0 inches or mm) will position the wing 
as far forward as possible, placing the aerodynamic balance as far 
FRONT CORNERS
forward as possible and shifting the handling towards oversteer. 
Reducing the value, setting it to more negative, will shift the wing 
more rearward and move the balance rearward and increase traction 
and understeer.
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight distribution on each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset setting. Once ride heights and corner weights are 
set, any change to a spring rate will typically require a corresponding 
spring perch offset adjustment to maintain static corner weight.
TUBE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom of the chassis frame rail on the 
front of the chassis. Adjusting the Tube Height is key for optimum 
performance, as it can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic 
performance as well as mechanical grip.
COIL SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force per 
unit of displacement. Softer springs allow for more roll and slower 
load transfer, and can be better on rougher or slicker tracks. Stiffer 
springs allow for less roll and quicker load transfer, and can help 
provide bite in loose dirt and moisture.
SHOCK COLLAR OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher front Bump values will increase compression resistance and 
transfer load onto a given tire more quickly, inducing understeer 
under braking and turn-in. Lower values reduce compression 
resistance and transfer load onto a given tire more slowly, which can 
induce oversteer under braking.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. When tuning for 
handling, higher front rebound can increase on-throttle mechanical 
understeer while lower values will maintain front end grip longer, 
helping to reduce mechanical understeer. Excessive front rebound 
can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight distribution on each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset setting. Once ride heights and corner weights are 
set, any change to a spring rate will typically require a corresponding 
spring perch offset adjustment to maintain static corner weight.
TUBE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom of the chassis frame rail on the 
rear of the chassis. Adjusting the Tube Height is key for optimum 
performance, as it can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic 
performance as well as mechanical grip.
TORSION BAR DIAMETER
The Torsion Bars are the spring elements for the rear corners of the 
car and behave in the same way as a conventional coil spring. The 
Outer Diameter of each torsion bar determines the bar’s spring rate 
and how stiff the bar is through changing suspension loads. Larger 
diameter bars will have a higher spring rate and will be stiffer, which 
is great for maintaining a consistent aerodynamic attitude around 
the track but will reduce mechanical grip, especially in slow corners. 
Smaller torsion bars will have a lower spring rate and produce more 
mechanical grip, however the extra movement from the suspension 
can hurt aerodynamic performance at high speeds.
TORSION BAR STOP
Each torsion bar can be preloaded to raise or lower a given 
corner of the car and increase or decrease the preload on the 
torsion bar springs. Increasing the Stop value will preload the 
torsion bar and raise the corner’s ride height, decreasing the 
Stop value will reduce the preload on a given torsion bar and 
lower the corner’s ride height.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher rear Bump values will increase compression resistance and 
transfer load onto a given tire more quickly, increasing rear traction 
on corner exit. Lower values reduce compression resistance and 
transfer load onto a given tire more slowly, which can help reduce 
understeer on corner exit.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. When tuning for 
handling, higher rear rebound can increase understeer when braking 
while lower values will induce oversteer under braking and during 
turn-in. Excessive rear rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations 
due to the wheel bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying 
in contact, reducing traction when exiting corners.
BUMP RUBBER RATE
A composite bump rubber can be used on the left-rear corner to 
limit travel and increase left-rear load. Higher rates will increase 
left-rear load faster, increasing dynamic crossweight and traction, 
while lower rates will reduce how quickly load is increased as the 
suspension compresses.
PACKER
Packers, or shims, are used to control when the left-rear bump 
rubber is engaged in suspension travel. Increasing the packer value 
will engage the bump rubber sooner, increasing traction and left-rear 
bite, while reducing the packer value will delay the bump rubber’s 
engagement and the load applied from the bump rubber.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | USER MANUAL
DIRT MICRO SPRINT | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
WHEEL SPACING
Using wheel spacers or a change in wheel offset, either wheel can 
be spaced further outboard or inboard to shift the leverage on that 
wheel. Spacing the left rear more outboard (more positive number) 
will generally tighten the car (understeer), and spacing it more 
inboard (more negative number) will generally free the car up more 
(oversteer). The opposite is true for the right rear.
REAR
FUEL FILL TO
Fuel fill level minimum should be sufficient for the desired number 
of laps to be completed, but can also be used for rear ballast. If you 
wish to increase the rear weight percentage for handling purposes, 
it can be useful to run excess fuel beyond the volume required to 
complete the laps.
REAR END RATIO
The gear ratio in the rear end should be set based on track length 
and track state to balance acceleration and top end RPM. Too low 
a numerical gear can lead to wheel spin and over rev the engine, 
while too high a numerical car can lead to bogging on throttle and 
slow acceleration. A good balance will provide manageable throttle 
response and good acceleration without reaching the rev limiter.