--- PAGE 1 ---

FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Pit Limiter » 11
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Shift Lights » 12
 Race Dash » 7
 Qual Dash » 9
Tires & Aero » 14 
 Front » 17
 Aero Calculator » 15
 Left/Right Front » 21
 Tire Settings » 14
 Brakes/In-Car » 19
Chassis » 17
 Left/Right Rear » 24
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
GENERAL INFORMATION
Table of Contents
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Rear » 26

--- PAGE 3 ---

Dear iRacing User,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Ferrari 488 GT3 EVO 2020! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The Ferrari 488 GT3 was already one of the Prancing Horse’s most successful sports cars of all time, 
but continued evolution is a hallmark of the brand’s continued success across all forms of racing. Such 
is the mindset that birthed the 488 GT3 Evo 2020, a reworked version of the car that features a longer 
wheelbase, new engine management system, additional driver comforts including a new seat developed with 
Sabelt, aerodynamic adjustments, and more. The result is a proven GT3 platform that has taken the next 
steps towards further glory in the world’s biggest sprint and endurance championships.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off of 
the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in getting up 
to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
POWER 
UNIT
CHASSIS
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE FRONT SUSPENSION, 
MULTI-LINK REAR SUSPENSION
TWIN-TURBO 90° V8
LENGTH
4633 mm
182.4 in
DISPLACEMENT
3.9 Liters
238.1 cid
WIDTH
2050 mm
80.7 in
TORQUE
435 lb-ft
589 Nm
WHEELBASE
2710 mm
106.7 in
POWER
500 bhp
373 kW
DRY WEIGHT
1283 kg
2829 lbs
RPM LIMIT
7600
 
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1406 kg
3100 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
Introduction
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the 
chassis setup adjustments available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune 
the chassis setup to your preference. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click 
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your baseline. After you have selected an appropriate 
setup, get on track and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing line and experiencing tire wear 
and handling trends over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the 
car to your handling preferences.
GETTING STARTED
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s 
downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine 
damage. If that is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when the final shift light on the dashboard is illuminated in red. This is at 7100 rpm. Note; all shift 
lights will flash red at 7200 rpm as an additional warning however, this is beyond the optimal shift point.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the 
setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. 
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the 
garage to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / DASH PAGES
Dash Pages
The digital dash display in this car features two selectable pages.
RACE DASH
Left of Shift light cluster Wheel lockup indicator for the left side; purple = front, blue = rear
Right of Shift light cluster Wheel lockup indicator for the right side; purple = front, blue = rear
Left Light stack top Low battery voltage warning light
Left Light stack second from top Vehicle external lights on/off indicator
Left Light stack second from bottom Repurposed for ABS intervention alert, active at 15% cut
Left Light stack bottom Indicates if the LH indicator is illuminated
Right Light stack top Low fuel pressure warning indicator, illuminates under 5 Bar (72.5 psi)
Right Light stack second from top Low oil pressure warning indicator
Right Light stack second from bottom Repurposed for ABS intervention alert, active at 15% cut
Right Light stack bottom Indicates if the RH indicator is illuminated
Row 1 Left Selected dashboard page
Row 1 Second from left Recovery mode for managing failures in the real car, non-adjustable
Row 1 Third from left Remaining fuel (Litres or US gallons)
Row 1 Third from right Road speed (km/h or mph)
Row 1 Second from right Road speed (km/h or mph)
Row 1 Right Graphical indicator of traction control intervention, more fill = more intervention
Row 2 Left Left front air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 2 Second from left Right front air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 2 Center Currently selected gear

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / DASH PAGES
Row 2 Second from right LF tire carcass temp. Alarm at 110 C (230 F) (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 2 Right RF tire carcass temp. Alarm at 110 C (230 F) (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Left Left rear air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 3 Second from left Right rear air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 3 Second from right LR tire carcass temp. Alarm at 110 C (230 F) (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Right RR tire carcass temp. Alarm at 110 C (230 F) (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 4 Left Low fuel pressure warning indicator, illuminates under 5 Bar (72.5 psi)
Row 4 Center Difference to best lap time, green = faster, red = slower, white = no data
Row 4 Right Predicted current lap time
Row 5 Left Currently selected engine map
Row 5 Second from left Currently selected throttle map
Row 5 Third from left Currently selected traction control 1 map(Combined with TC2)
Row 5 Center Currently selected traction control 2 map (Combined with TC1)
Row 5 Third from right Currently selected traction control 3 map (non-adjustable in sim)
Row 5 Second from right Currently selected ABS map
Row 5 Right Current brake pressure bias forwards as %
Row 2 Left Left front air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 2 Second from left Right front air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 2 Center Currently selected gear

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / DASH PAGES
QUAL DASH
Left of Shift light cluster Wheel lockup indicator for the left side; purple = front, blue = rear
Right of Shift light cluster Wheel lockup indicator for the right side; purple = front, blue = rear
Left Light stack top Low battery voltage warning light
Left Light stack second from top Vehicle external lights on/off indicator
Left Light stack second from bottom Repurposed for ABS intervention alert, active at 15% cut
Left Light stack bottom Indicates if the LH indicator is illuminated
Right Light stack top Low fuel pressure warning indicator, illuminates under 5 Bar (72.5 psi)
Right Light stack second from top Low oil pressure warning indicator
Right Light stack second from bottom Repurposed for ABS intervention alert, active at 15% cut
Right Light stack bottom Indicates if the RH indicator is illuminated
Row 1 Left Selected dashboard page
Row 1 Second from left Recovery mode for managing failures in the real car, non-adjustable
Row 1 Third from left Remaining fuel (Litres or US gallons)
Row 1 Third from right Fuel used on the last lap (Litres or US gallons)
Row 1 Second from right Road speed (km/h or mph)
Row 1 Right Graphical indicator of traction control intervention, more fill = more intervention
Row 2 Left Left front air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 2 Second from left Right front air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 2 Center Currently selected gear
Row 2 Second from right Left front brake rotor surface temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 2 Right Right front brake rotor surface temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Left Left rear air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 3 Second from left Right rear air pressure, Low alarm at 1.55 Bar (22.5 psi) (Bar or psi)
Row 3 Second from right Left rear brake rotor surface temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Right Right brake rotor surface temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 4 Left Last lap time (mm:ss:ms)

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / DASH PAGES
Row 4 Center Difference to best lap time, green = faster, red = slower, white = no data
Row 4 Right Predicted current lap time
Row 5 Left Currently selected engine map
Row 5 Second from left Currently selected throttle map
Row 5 Third from left Currently selected traction control 1 map(Combined with TC2)
Row 5 Center Currently selected traction control 2 map (Combined with TC1)
Row 5 Third from right Currently selected traction control 3 map (non-adjustable in sim)
Row 5 Second from right Currently selected ABS map
Row 5 Right Current brake pressure bias forwards as %

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
PIT LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active the dash page switches automatically to the ‘pitlane’ page. This page is only accessible while the 
limiter is active.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / DASH PAGES
Row 1 Left Selected dashboard page
Row 1 Center Road speed, green indicates at or under the required speed limit. (km/h or mph)
Row 1 Right Traction control indicator, when the limiter is active TC is disabled
Row 2 Left Total time in pit lane timer (mm,ss,ms)
Row 2 Center Currently selected gear
Row 2 Right Road speed, green indicates at or under the required speed limit. (km/h or mph)
Row 3 Left Slow box illuminates red when above the speed limit
Row 3 Second from left Gas box illuminates green when under the speed limit
Row 3 Right Launch control indicator, active when exiting the pit box
Row 4 Left PBX mode, for managing failures in the real car, non-adjustable
Row 4 Second front left PBX mode, for managing failures in the real car, non-adjustable
Row 4 Third from left Recovery mode for managing failures in the real car, non-adjustable
Row 4 Center Remaining fuel (Litres or US gallons)
Row 4 Third from right Laps completed
Row 4 Second from right Front brake line pressure (Bar or dapsi)
Row 4 Right Rear brake line pressure (Bar or dapsi)
Row 5 Left Currently selected engine map
Row 5 Second from left Currently selected throttle map
Row 5 Third from left Currently selected traction control 1 map(Combined with TC2)
Row 5 Center Currently selected traction control 2 map (Combined with TC1)
Row 5 Third from right Currently selected traction control 3 map (non-adjustable in sim)
Row 5 Second from right Currently selected ABS map
Row 5 Right Current brake pressure bias forwards as %

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
SHIFT LIGHTS
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / DASH PAGES
1 Green 6100 rpm
2 Green 6300 rpm
3 Green 6500 rpm 
4 Green 6700 rpm
1 Yellow 6800 rpm
1 Red 7100 rpm
All Red Flashing 7200 rpm
 

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
Advanced Setup Options
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to 
dive deeper into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup. Making 
adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to 
significant changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that 
any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion and only singular 
variables are adjusted before testing changes.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
Tires & Aero
TIRES
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set 
to track characteristics for optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at lower pressures and work your 
way upwards as required.
HOT AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between 
cold and hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change 
in handling balance over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar 
pressures once up to operating temperature. Hot pressures should be analysed once the tires have stabilised after a period of 
laps. As the number of laps per run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is approximately 50% of a full 
fuel run.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work 
a tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are 
useful for analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured in three zones across 
the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible 
issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same zones as those of temperature. 
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the shift in aerodynamic 
balance associated with adjustment of the rear wing setting and front and rear ride heights. 
It is important to note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes to the rear wing angle 
here WILL be applied to the car. This calculator is a reference tool ONLY. 
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using 
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride heights as this will provide a more accurate 
representation of the current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using 
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride heights as this will provide a more accurate 
representation of the current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a 
significant impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car 
rearwards with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more total cornering grip capability in medium to high 
speed corners but will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle should be adjusted in conjunction with front 
and rear ride heights, specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall 
aerodynamic balance it is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear wing angle.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within 
the calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and 
it can be helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving 
in differing situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will 
result in more oversteer in mid to high speed corners.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
Chassis
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the number of ARB arms will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing 
mechanical understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel from the driver. Conversely, reducing 
the number of ARB arms will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. This 
can result in a less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle will increase. Along with this, the effects of 
softening or stiffening the ARB assembly in relation to aerodynamics should also be considered, softer ARB assemblies will result 
in more body roll which will decrease control of the aero platform in high speed corners and potentially lead to a loss in aero 
efficiency. 10 configurations of ARB arms are available and range from 1 (softest) to 10 (stiffest).
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will 
increase slip in the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce the slip. Toe-out will decrease straight-line stability but will increase 
turn-in responsiveness. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in responsiveness but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master 
cylinder will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort 
required to lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase brake line pressure to the front 
brakes, shifting brake bias forward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder options are available ranging 
from 15.9 mm / 0.626” (highest line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the rear wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting 
brake bias rearward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder options are available ranging from 15.9 mm / 
0.626” (highest line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, 
reducing the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the effectiveness of the 
brakes while increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal 
for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in 
right hand corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure 
in the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock 
up the front tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. It is important to note that differing combinations 
of master cylinder size will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is because increasing or reducing the split in 
master cylinder size difference between front and rear axles will produce an inherent forward or rearward bias in brake 
line pressure.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel spin. 
12 positions are available. Settings 2-12 range from least intervention/sensitivity (position 2) through to highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 12). Position 1 disables the traction control completely. Position 4 is the recommended baseline setting. 
More intervention will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance if the traction control is 
cutting engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
THROTTLE SHAPE SETTING
There are 3 settings on this car. They can be adjusted to suit driving style and track conditions. Position 1 has a butterfly shape 
where small pedal movements result in proportionately less engine torque. This can help prevent wheelspin when modulating the 
pedal in low speed or low grip situations. Position 3 is linear - 50% pedal position results in 50% of maximum possible torque. 
Position 2 is halfway between linear and butterfly.
ENGINE MAP SETTING
The fuel map on which the car is currently running. Position 1 is the base map and produces maximum power but the most fuel 
usage. Positions 2 through 11 are for fuel saving under green flag conditions and will reduce engine power output correspondingly. 
The higher the number the better the fuel economy but the lower the power output. Position 12 is for saving fuel under safety car 
conditions and is not recommended for normal usage.
LEFT NIGHT LED STRIP
Changes the colour of the light strip on the left side of the car. 7 options are available: Blue, Purple, Red, Yellow, Orange, 
Green and Off.
RIGHT NIGHT LED STRIP
Changes the colour of the light strip on the right side of the car. 7 options are available: Blue, Purple, Red, Yellow, Orange, 
Green and Off.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
LEFT/RIGHT FRONT
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the spring perch offset adjustments at each corner. 
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of 
the car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence 
the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce 
as well as decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle. Minimum legal 
front ride height is 50.0 mm.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch 
offset will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These 
changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in 
the car.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
SPRING SELECTED/SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform control; however, they 
will also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer 
springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch control of the platform and ARB changes should be 
considered when altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to rear roll stiffness and overall balance. 
When reducing corner spring stiffness the ARB stiffness (either via blade or diameter depending on the size of the corner spring 
change) should be increased to retain the same roll stiffness as previously. 6 options for spring rate are available ranging from 
180 N/mm (1029 lbs/in) to 330 N/mm (1886 lbs/in) in 30 N/mm (172 lbs/in) steps. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted 
to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to compresion (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering 
forces. In this case 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) while 11 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car 
during transient movements such as braking and direction change with increased damping usually providing an increase in turn-in 
response but a reduction in overall grip in the context of front dampers.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less 
high speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 11 is maximum 
damping while 0 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
as a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being unloaded when the 
suspension can’t expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, higher front low speed 
rebound can increase on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce nose lift) while lower values will maintain front end grip 
longer, helping to reduce understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due 
to the wheel bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying in contact. 11 is maximum damping (most resistant to extension) 
while 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. 11 is maximum damping while 0 is minimum damping.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber 
values will increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have 
under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is 
important to find a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber values will typically result in increased front 
axle grip during mid to high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and necessitate a rearward shift in 
brake bias to compensate.
CASTER
Caster is the vertical angle of the steering axis relative to the side view of the chassis. Positive caster angle is where the steering 
axis is leaned rearwards from this viewpoint, the more caster the larger the total trail of the contact patch behind the steering 
axis. More caster angle will result in the mechanical trail being a larger proportion of the felt steering weight relative to the tires 
pneumatic trail. This will result in a heavier overall steering feel but a possible loss in felt feedback from the tire. Increasing caster 
angle will also have secondary effects such as an increase in dynamic camber when turning the wheel through large steering 
angles which can be beneficial in chicances or hairpins. As well as this the more caster angle the greater the jacking effect during 
cornering which will result in lifting the inside front wheel while lowering the outside front wheel. This jacking effect will also result 
in the unloading and potentially lifting of the inside rear wheel which can aid in rotation around tight corners.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
LEFT/RIGHT REAR
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer 
across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations 
and static rear ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance. 
Minimum legal rear ride height is 50.0 mm while maximum legal rear ride height is 90.0 mm.
SPRING SELECTED/SPRING RATE
Similar to at the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between high and low load cases and will 
produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be 
particularly prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle application. Stiffer springs will tend to react 
poorly during these instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant traction loss. Spring stiffness should 
be matched to the needs of the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent between high and low speed 
cornering. As an example case, a car which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer could benefit from an 
increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer during slow 
speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance 
forwards and reduce understeer. 6 options for spring rate are available ranging from 180 N/mm (1029 lbs/in) to 330 N/mm 
(1886 lbs/in) in 30 N/mm (172 lbs/in) steps. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior static ride 
heights after any spring rate change.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to compresion (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering 
forces. In this case 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) while 11 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car 
during transient movements such as braking and direction change with increased damping usually increasing the cars tendency to 
understeer on throttle application. 
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less 
high speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 11 is maximum 
damping while 0 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
as a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. As at the front, high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control for aerodynamic performance and overall 
chassis response but it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this can result in the tire 
losing complete contact with the track surface. Provided this is avoided,, an increase in rebound stiffness can help to ‘slow down’ 
the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are applied, increasing braking stability and off-throttle mechanical understeer. 11 is 
maximum damping (most resistant to extension) while 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. 11 is maximum damping while 0 is minimum damping.
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip 
capability; however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the 
rear tires are 25 mm (~1”) wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must also perform the duty of driving the 
car forwards where benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and 
reduce straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that the values are for each individual wheel as opposed 
to paired as at the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment 
at the front of the car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal 
to prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behaviour; however, heavily asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a 
benefit in performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other setup parameters.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS

--- PAGE 26 ---

26
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 // USER MANUAL
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Tank capacity is 101 L (26.7 g). Adjustable in 1 L (0.26 g) increments.
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the car to “take a set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing 
the ARB assembly stiffness will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer. This can 
result in a less-responsive feel from the rear especially in transient movements, but grip across the rear axle will increase. 10 
configurations of ARB arms are available and range from 1 (softest) to 10 (stiffest).
GEAR STACK
Four options of gear stack are available for selection depending upon track type. The FiA stack is suitable for almost all track types 
and should be treated as the baseline. IMSA Daytona and IMSA Short provide two alternative options which are targeted for 
tracks with longer and shorter straightaways respectively. The Ferrari Challenge gear stack is an alternate option which emulates 
2nd thru 7th of the 488 Challenge gearbox and is not commonly recommended, though it may be useful on street circuits due to 
its tight spacing of the lower gears.
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behaviour as the differential locking force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner 
exit drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and brake in low to mid speed corners.
FERRARI 488 GT3 EVO 2020 / / CHASSIS