--- PAGE 1 ---

1
FERRARI 296 GT3
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 14
Chassis » 14
 Aero Balance Calculator » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 15
 Front Corners » 16 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 19
 Gears / Differential » 18
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 22
 Chassis Adjustments » 22
 Differential Adjustments » 23
Setup Tips » 20
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Ferrari’s latest foray into GT3 racing, the 296 GT3 made its debut in the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar 
Championship and other major global championships in time for the 2023 season. It succeeds the 488 
GT3 EVO that made its debut in 2020, and it was designed to build on that car’s successes with easier 
setup modifications for the crew and significantly more downforce than its predecessor.
Powered by a V6 engine just like its road-going counterpart, the 296 GT3 is capable of producing 600 
horsepower from its 2.9-liter powerplant. Four cars took to the track across IMSA’s GTD and GTD Pro 
classes in its debut at the 24 Hours of Daytona, and the car took its first win in a twice-around-the-clock 
endurance race a few short months later at the Nürburgring. The following guide explains how to get the 
most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the 
cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
FERRARI 296 GT3 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH OUTBOARD 
SPRINGS AND DAMPERS
TWIN-TURBOCHARGED 
FERRARI F163 V6
LENGTH
4565 mm
179.7 in
WIDTH
2050 mm
80.7 in
DISPLACEMENT
3.0 Liters
183 CID
TORQUE
490 lb-ft
664 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8000 RPM 
POWER
524 bhp
391 kW
WHEELBASE
2660 mm
104.7 in
DRY WEIGHT
1350 kg
2976 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1508 kg
3325 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
FERRARI 296 GT3 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as 
selecting the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting 
the accelerator pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission 
and does not require a clutch input to shift in either direction. 
However the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to 
downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear selected 
and would incur engine damage. If that is the case, the gear 
change command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number of 
laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may 
load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting 
the setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the 
changes in the garage that you would like to update and click 
apply. 
 
FERRARI 296 GT3 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Ferrari 296 GT3 features a Bosch DDU 10 display that organizes and shows all vital information to the driver. Two 
options for the display page are available: The “RACE 1” page shows all information available and the “QUALI” page removes 
speed and fuel information.
Left Column
Display Page
The upper-left of the display will show which display page is active, either “RACE 1” for the 
Race page and “QUALI” for the Qualifying page.
ENG BRK Not currently driver adjustable.
Speed Current vehicle speed in kph or mph. This box is removed for the QUAL page.
Tire Pressures
The live pressure in each tire is shown in the four boxes on the left side of the display. When pressures are 
too low the boxes will be blue, the boxes will be black when the pressures are in the optimum range, and the 
boxes will be red when too high.
PED Current Throttle Shape setting
ENG Fuel saving engine maps are not currently adjustable in the iRacing GT3 class
ABS Current Anti-Lock Brake System setting
Center
RPM/Tachometer A digital tachometer is located at the top of the display above the gear indicator
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear
Stint Amount of fuel used since last leaving the pits. This box is removed for the QUAL page.
Lap Amount of fuel that was used in the previous lap. This box is removed for the QUAL page.
Pred Predicted amount of fuel that will be used on the next lap. This box is removed for the QUAL page.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | DASH PAGES
Right Columns
BBAL Current Brake Bias setting
Lap Counter Number of completed laps for the current session
Tire Surface Temperature / 
Brake Temp
Each tire’s tread surface temperature is shown in the boxes on the right side of the display. These boxes can 
display Brake Temperature using the Dash Page 2 Set button (more information below). When the tires/rotors 
are too cold the boxes will be blue, the boxes will be black when they are in optimum temperature range, and 
will be red when overheated.
TC3 Inoperable
TC2
Current Traction Control system setting. This is linked to the TC1 display and will show the same number for 
both settings.
TC1
Current Traction Control system setting. This is linked to the TC2 display and will show the same number for 
both settings.
Bottom Row
Previous Lap / Best Lap
Lap time for the previously completed lap. This will change to the Session Best Lap with the Dash Page 2 Set 
button.
Diff Time difference between the current lap and the fastest lap of the session, updated live
Predicted Lap The estimated lap time for the current lap, updated live

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
The top of the digital display has a set of LED shift lights to help 
the driver know when to upshift while accelerating.
As RPM increases the lights will illuminate from left to right, with all 
lights turning red when the ideal shift point has been reached.
BRAKE LOCKUP LIGHTS
Two LED lights on either side of the display will illuminate in the event of a wheel lockup, their location indicating which wheel
is locking. The upper magenta lights will illuminate when the front wheels are locked and two cyan lights indicate lockups on the
rear wheels.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGE SET CONTROLS
The In-car Adjustments control assignments on the Options > Control page has two settings to control the dash display without 
navigating to the In-Car Adjustment black box.
DASH PAGE SET
The Dash Page Set assignment will allow toggling between the Race and Qual dash pages. The button assigned to increase the value 
will change the dash to the Qual page while the button assigned to decrease the value will change the dash to the Race page.
DASH PAGE 2 SET
BRAKE ROTOR TEMPERATURES
On the right side of the dash the Tire Temperature values will be 
replaced with Brake Rotor temperatures. As with the tire temperature 
values, the brake temperatures will be color-coded to easily identify 
the status of each brake system. Blue indicates too cold, black 
indicates the optimum temperature range, and red indicates an 
overheated brake rotor.
BEST LAP TIME
The bottom right box, usually displaying the Previous Lap time, will 
show the session Best Lap Time in purple.
The Dash Page 2 assignment will change the data displayed on either page and can be toggled back and forth just like the main pages 
themselves can be toggled. When activated, the following information is displayed:

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Tires fitted to the Ferrari 296 GT3 car can be changed based 
on weather conditions. The Dry option fits a slick tire intended for 
dry track conditions while the Wet option fits a treaded tire for wet 
track surfaces.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but
will decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and 
heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set to 
track characteristics for optimum performance. Generally speaking, 
it is advisable to start at lower pressures and work your way 
upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold 
and hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way 
should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in 
handling balance over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should
be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed
once the tires have stabilized after a period of laps. As the number 
of laps per run will vary depending upon track length a good starting 
point is approximately 50% of a full fuel run.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track are 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire: Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as the temperatures.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce and drag produced by the car as 
well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. This setting in 
the Aero Calculator is linked to the Rear Wing Angle setting on the 
Chassis / Rear section, changing one setting will also change the 
other.
% FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the percentage of total downforce acting at 
the front axle for the given wing and ride height combination set 
within the calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous 
representation of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters 
and it can be helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or 
section of track to understand how the aerodynamic balance is 
moving in differing situations such as braking, steady state cornering 
and accelerating at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will 
result in more oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The angle of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed 
to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher values 
transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, increasing 
roll stiffness in the front suspension, inducing understeer while 
cornering. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness of
the front suspension and reduce understeer.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip 
in the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce slip. Front Toe-out 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response but will reduce 
straight-line stability. Toe-in will reduce turn-in responsiveness 
but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires and increase 
straight-line stability.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the 
brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock 
the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and 
increase brake line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias 
forward and reducing required pedal effort.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase 
brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward 
and reducing required pedal effort.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
ENDURANCE LIGHTS
An extra set of headlights can be installed for night racing
to increase driver visibility. Installing these will not affect
vehicle performance.
NIGHT LED STRIP
This changes the color of the LED strips on the right side of the 
windshield to help identify cars with similar liveries in nighttime 
conditions. This is strictly a visual change for identifying the car in 
night time conditions and has no effect on the vehicle’s handling.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones.
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
It is important to note that differing combinations of master cylinder 
size will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is 
because increasing or reducing the split in master cylinder size 
difference between front and rear axles will produce an inherent 
forward or rearward bias in brake line pressure.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. The ABS system features
12 positions divided into three groups to suit varying track 
conditions, with lower values providing less assistance and higher 
values providing more assistance to prevent brake lockup.
Settings 2-7 are for slick tires in dry conditions, 8-12 are for wet 
conditions. Generally, setting 8 will be good for light rain while 
settings will need to be increased as conditions worsen, with setting 
12 being for heavy rain. Setting 1 disables the system completely.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. Twelve settings are available with Position 2 providing the least 
intervention and Position 12 providing the most. Like the ABS setting, 
Position 1 will disable the Traction Control System. More intervention 
will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce 
overall performance if the traction control is cutting engine torque 
too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration.
THROTTLE SHAPE SETTING
Throttle shape setting refers to how changes in the drivers pedal 
position result in changes in provided engine torque. Ten positions 
are available with setting 1 providing a linear torque response 
through pedal travel and the map moving towards a more S-shaped 
curve as the value increases to setting 9. Setting 10 is linear, just 
like setting 1, but has a higher slope and will be more aggressive as 
throttle is applied.
DISPLAY PAGE
This sets which of the in-car display pages is shown when the 
engine is started.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right
hand corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the floor of the car at the front axle 
centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle. 
Minimum drag setups with very low rear wing angles may require 
higher front ride heights in order to achieve the proper aerodynamic 
balance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. 
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height 
between high and low load cases and will produce better 
aerodynamic performance through improved ride height
control however, but they will also result in reduced mechanical 
grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer springs will become 
more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs in these 
situations will result in increased overall performance.
Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the 
prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the floor of the car at the rear axle 
centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight 
transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce 
overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the 
rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both 
mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear 
ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear 
corner springs for optimal performance. Minimum legal rear ride 
height is 50.0 mm while maximum legal rear ride height is 92.5 mm.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will result in lowering the corner of the car while 
reducing the spring perch offset will raise the corner of the car. 
These changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to 
right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs 
(LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness.
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce better aerodynamic 
performance through improved ride height control however, but they 
will also result in reduced mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks 
of stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the
car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
CAMBER
At the rear of the car, camber performs a similar job to the front by 
increasing lateral grip with negative values. However, with the rear 
tires being driven camber can directly affect the amount of traction 
available on throttle and under braking. While larger negative camber 
values can increase lateral grip and cornering stability, it can hurt 
forward traction when throttle is applied as well as increase the risk 
of a rear lockup under heavy braking when the load is reduced on 
the rear tires.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded
into the world.
ARB BLADES
The angle of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed 
to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher values 
transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, increasing 
roll stiffness in the rear suspension and inducing oversteer while 
cornering. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness of the 
rear suspension and will reduce oversteer. 
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle. This setting on the Chassis page is linked to the Rear 
Wing Angle setting in the Aero Calculator section, changing one 
setting will also change the other.
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
GEAR STACK
Three options for the transmission gear stack are available for 
selection depending upon track type. The FIA stack is suitable for 
almost all track types and should be treated as the baseline.
IMSA Daytona and IMSA Short provide two alternative options
which are targeted for tracks with longer and shorter
straightaways respectively.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treated as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces. 
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner 
exit drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle 
and brake in low to mid speed corners.wing angle. This setting on 
the Chassis page is linked to the Rear Wing Angle setting in the Aero 
Calculator section, changing one setting will also change the other.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result
of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Setting 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) 
while 11 is maximum damping (most resistance to compression). 
Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a
faster transfer of weight to the front or rear of the car during 
transient movements such as braking and direction change 
with increased damping usually increasing the cars tendency to 
understeer on throttle application.
On the front end of the car, increasing Low Speed Compression will 
induce understeer under braking and whenever the front suspension 
is compressing. On the rear, more compression will increase traction 
on throttle and when the rear suspension is 
in compression, which can be perceived as understeer in extreme 
cases.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. 
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control for 
aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response but can 
result in the tire losing complete contact with the track surface if
the suspension can’t extend fast enough with reduced loads. 
On the front end, higher rebound settings will hold the front of the 
car down longer during acceleration but can induce understeer 
on throttle application or over crests. On the rear of the car, 
more rebound will stabilize the car under braking but can induce 
understeer if set too aggressively.
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension after bumps
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend
more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar 
results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled
oscillations if set improperly.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require 
adjustment. This is performed by using the spring perch offsets 
at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will reduce the ride 
height while left clicks (negative) will increase the ride height. 
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups.
Baseline is a 100% fuel load setup which is intended solely for 
loading the car at every possible track. As such, this setup should 
always pass tech inspection at every fuel load and track but will not 
provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition. 
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended to 
start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating the 
other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track may 
benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum speed 
reached. 
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Sebring International Raceway High
Daytona International Speedway Low/Medium Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Sonoma Raceway High
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Hungaroring High Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Lime Rock Park High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series and 
is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations.
The setup titled ‘challenge’ is the setup used in the Ferrari Challenge 
fixed setup series.
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +10
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 37.5 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 58.5 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: -2
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1.0 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +3.0 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +1.0 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -3.0 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
FERRARI 296 GT3 | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 GT3 | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Two adjustment options are available for the differential. 
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on throttle 
oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, less 
off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.