--- PAGE 1 ---

1
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 13
Chassis » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 14
 Front Corners » 15 
 Rear » 17
 Rear Corners » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup Tips » 20
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Ferrari 296 Challenge! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH OUTBOARD 
SPRINGS AND DAMPERS
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED STEEL BLOCK 
PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
4602 mm
181.2 in
WIDTH
1958 mm
77 in
DISPLACEMENT
3.0 Liters
183 CID
TORQUE
546 lb-ft
740 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8500 RPM 
POWER
690 bhp
514 kW
WHEELBASE
2600 mm
102.3 in
DRY WEIGHT
1470 kg
3240 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1575 kg
3472 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is 
not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as 
your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in 
the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
 
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Ferrari 296 Challenge features a large digital display in the dash that provides the driver with a wealth of information 
while on track. Featuring four pages to choose from, the left half of the display is constant for all four pages while the right 
half will change based on the page selected.
Left Column
Tachometer A graphical tachometer at the top of the display gives a visual representation for the engine RPM.
P OIL Engine Oil system pressure in bar or psi
T OIL Engine Oil temperature in °C or °F
T WATER Engine cooling water temperature in °C or °F
Fuel Gauge
A graphical fuel gauge, shown in orange, is situated to the left of the box surrounding the gear and
speed display.
TC2 Current TC2 setting
TC1 Current TC1 setting
ABS
Current ABS setting. Settings 1-2 will show “SLICK” while settings 3-4 will show “RAIN” with a blue 
background.
Center
Gear The currently-selected gear is shown in the center at the top of the white boxed area
TCS/ABS Activation
Below the gear indicator is a Traction Control or Anti-Lock Brake indicator that will flash whenever either 
system is intervening to prevent wheelspin or lockup.
Speed Vehicle speed, in kph or mph

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | DASH PAGES
RACE PAGE
TIRE PAGE
Race Page
Best Diff Time
Live time delta comparing the current lap against the session best lap. If the current lap is faster, this value 
will be highlighted with a purple background.
Lap Laps completed in the session
Lap Time Current lap time
Fuel Cons Live fuel consumption, in Liters or Gallons
Tire Page
Best Diff Time
Live time delta comparing the current lap against the session best lap. If the current lap is faster, this value 
will be highlighted with a purple background.
Tire Pressures
Live Tire Pressures are shown on each corner of the car image in kpa or psi. Each tire has a color-coded 
indicator to show when the tire is in the optimum range: Blue is too low, green is optimum, red is too high.
Predicted Time Predicted current lap time

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | DASH PAGES
QUALI PAGE
TIRE PAGE
Race Page
Best Diff Time
Live time delta comparing the current lap against the session best lap. If the current lap is faster, this value 
will be highlighted with a purple background.
Lap Laps completed in the session
Best Lap Time Best lap time for the current session
Predicted Time Predicted current lap time
Tire Page
Best Diff Time
Live time delta comparing the current lap against the session best lap. If the current lap is faster, this value 
will be highlighted with a purple background.
Coach Lap Time
Comparison lap based on a pre-defined target lap time. For information on loading this value, see the Setup 
Tips section of this guide.
Predicted Time Predicted current lap time

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
A set of ten LEDs above the digital display serve as an
indication for when the engine has reached the optimum
shift point.
As RPM increases the lights will illuminate from left to right, 
from green to red. Drivers should upshift when all lights are red 
and flashing.
PIT SPEED LIMITER
Whenever the pit limiter is active the shift lights will all change to green, a yellow “PIT LIMITER” banner will be displayed, and the pit road 
speed limit will be shown in the lower right of the display.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB HOLE
To fine-tune the front Anti-Roll Bar’s stiffness the position of
the ARB linkages can be changed to one of two positions.
The Soft setting will reduce front roll stiffness, reducing understeer 
at turn-in, while the Stiff setting will increase front roll stiffness and 
induce understeer at turn-in.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip 
in the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce slip. Front Toe-out 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response but will reduce 
straight-line stability. Toe-in will reduce turn-in responsiveness 
but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires and increase 
straight-line stability.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage across
the front axle. Higher Nose Weight values will induce understeer 
when cornering and promote straight-line stability, while lower
Nose Weight values will increase oversteer while cornering.
This is not directly adjustable and is altered by other adjustments, 
such as Fuel Level.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DISPLAY PAGE
This sets which of the in-car display pages is shown when the 
engine is started.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. The ABS system features
4 positions to suit varying track conditions, with lower values 
providing less assistance and higher values providing more 
assistance to prevent brake lockup. Settings 1-2 are for slick 
tires in dry conditions, 3-4 are for wet conditions. The ABS system 
cannot be disabled.
TC1 SETTING
The TC1 setting controls the amount of intervention the Traction 
Control will exert when wheel spin is detected. Setting 0 will disable 
the traction control system (both TC1 and TC2), setting 1 has the 
least support and 4 has the most support. 
TC2 SETTING
The TC2 setting controls how sensitive the Traction Control system 
will be to wheelspin based on yaw. Setting 1 has the least support 
and 4 has the most support. TC2 can only be disabled by selecting 
Setting 0 on TC1.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
MP RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a designated reference point, or “Master 
Point”, at the front of the car.. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing 
front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as decrease 
overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer across 
the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride height will 
increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the weight transfer 
across the front axle. 
Minimum drag setups with very low rear wing angles may
require higher front ride heights in order to achieve the proper 
aerodynamic balance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Increasing front camber values will 
typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to high speed 
cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
MP RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point, or “Master Point”, at 
the rear of the car. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear 
downforce as well as increase overall downforce and will allow 
for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase rear downforce 
percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the 
weight transfer across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical 
tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance 
considerations and static rear ride heights should be considered and 
matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance. 
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
At the rear of the car, camber performs a similar job to the front by 
increasing lateral grip with negative values. However, with the rear 
tires being driven camber can directly affect the amount of traction 
available on throttle and under braking. While larger negative camber 
values can increase lateral grip and cornering stability, it can hurt 
forward traction when throttle is applied as well as increase the risk 
of a rear lockup under heavy braking when the load is reduced on 
the rear tires.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that 
the values are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at 
the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels are 
twice as powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the 
car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised 
to keep the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or 
asymmetric handling behavior

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when loaded into the world.
ARB HOLE
To fine-tune the rear Anti-Roll Bar’s stiffness the position of the 
ARB linkages can be changed to one of two positions. The Soft 
setting will reduce rear roll stiffness, reducing oversteer at turn-in, 
while the Stiff setting will increase rear roll stiffness and induce 
oversteer at turn-in.
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | USER MANUAL
FERRARI 296 CHALLENGE | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
ANTI-LOCK BRAKING AND TRACTION CONTROL 
SYSTEMS
4 ABS settings are available, P1-P2 for dry tires, P3-P4 for wet tires. 
This setting impacts the target brake bias, the differential coast side 
locking, the brake distribution targets and the maximum allowable 
wheelslip during braking. P1 is the aggressive dry setting while P2 
is the conservative dry setting. Similarly, P3 is the aggressive wet 
setting and P4 the conservative wet setting.
The aggressive settings target a further rearwards brake bias,
more allowable yaw and a greater emphasis on using trail braking
to rotate the car. It is not recommended to use the wet ABS settings 
in dry conditions due to sub-optimal performance. The ABS cannot 
be disabled.
The TC1 adjustment is based on allowable longitudinal wheelslip 
and can be disabled if desired. 5 TC1 settings are available, PO = 
OFF, P1-P2 are recommended for most conditions, with intervention 
increasing from lowest at PO (OFF) to highest at P4.
The TC2 adjustment does not regulate based on wheelslip but 
instead on vehicle yaw angle, at lower settings more yaw is 
permitted before the system will intervene. This setting also
adjusts the differential drive side locking for more on throttle
rotation at lower positions. 4 TC2 settings are available, P1 allows
for the most yaw and the most drive side locking, while P4 restricts 
yaw the most and has the least drive side locking for driveability. 
Please note, when TC1 PO (OFF) is selected the TC2 is also
disabled and the differential drive side locking is set to the 
equivalent of TC2 P1.
REAR WING ANGLE
This car has an adjustable rear wing which is the primary tool for 
tuning the overall car balance. It can also set the overall downforce 
trim for different track types when used in tandem with a change 
in rear ride height to achieve the same aero balance. For each +1 
degree step of rear wing angle, +4 mm (+0.157”) of rear ride height is 
required to achieve the same aero balance.
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you find that a setup fails tech inspection after an adjustment 
to the fuel level, it is likely that the ride heights require adjustment. 
This is performed by using the spring perch offsets at either end of 
the car, right clicks (positive) will reduce the ride height while left 
clicks (negative) will increase the ride height. 
The Ferrari 296 Challenge is a car with relatively few setup 
adjustments available, however, should you wish to build your own 
setup, we have provided the following notes to help you get started. 
Tire Pressure For all 4 corners at most tracks minimum air pressures 
will likely provide the most performance, these minimums have 
been set such that the hot pressures reach a typical real-world 
hot pressure target. However, should the track have particularly 
long straightaways (such as Le Mans) then you may benefit from 
increasing tire pressures slightly to reduce rolling drag and tire 
temperature generation. 
ARB Setting -> Two positions of ARB are available at each end of the 
car as a fine tune to the balance. At the front of the car a stiffer ARB 
will result in more understeer while at the rear of the car a stiffer ARB 
will result in more oversteer.
Ride Height -> At both the front and rear of the car the most 
performance mechanically and aerodynamically is achieved at the 
lowest possible ride heights while still passing tech inspection. This 
is 105 mm in the front and 107 mm in the rear. Front ride height 
should only be increased at extreme tracks such as the Nurburgring 
in the event of excessive ground contact. Rear ride height can be 
increased slightly to move the aerodynamic balance forwards for 
more oversteer and this will produce more overall downforce and 
more aerodynamic drag. To achieve the same aerodynamic balance, 
the rear wing angle should be increased as stated in the Driver Aids/
Setup portion of the notes tab. 
Camber -> At the front of the car it is advised to run as much 
camber as possible. More camber results in more lateral (cornering) 
capability while reducing longitudinal (traction and straight line 
braking) capability. Often the gains in lateral capability will outweigh 
the loss in longitudinal capability.
Toe-in -> At the front of the car more toe-in can result in improved 
mid corner performance but at the cost of entry stability and straight 
line braking. More toe-out will improve initial turn-in response but 
can overslip the inside tire during mid-corner resulting in excessive 
scrub. At the rear of the car only toe-in is available. More toe-in will 
result in greater stability during braking and on power movements 
however it may result in more mid-corner understeer and slower 
overall response to inputs.
COACH LAP TIME
The Coach Page for the digital display can load a saved lap time 
for comparison purposes. To use this, open the Options page in 
the sim and go to Option > Split Time Delta > Lap Data > Comparison 
Lap > Load. This will display the loaded time in the Coach line on 
the dash display.