--- PAGE 1 ---

1
FIA F4
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 10
 Front » 13
Chassis » 13
 Aero Setup » 11
 Aero Calculator » 12
Tires & Aero » 10 
 Left / Right Front » 14
 Left / Right Rear » 16 
 Rear » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Dash Configuration » 7
 Shift Lights & Pit Limiter » 8
 Halo Center Pillar » 8

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the FIA F4! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your support and 
your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we hope that 
you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The FIA F4 has been developed in conjunction with the global effort to massively increase the 
participation of motorsport worldwide. Following the introduction of a second-generation entry-level 
open-wheel formula in 2022, the FIA F4 benefits from the same level of analysis, detail, data, and testing 
as our members have come to expect while the genericized model allows for use by national clubs
world-over without manufacturer conflicts.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off 
of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful
in getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
FIA F4 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE PUSHROD 
SUSPENSION FRONT AND REAR
INLINE 4 CYLINDER
LENGTH
4467mm
175.9in
WIDTH
1738mm
68.4in
DISPLACEMENT
2.0 Liters
122.6CID
TORQUE
226lb-ft
167Nm
RPM LIMIT
7275 RPM 
POWER
178bhp
131kW
WHEELBASE
2745mm
108.1in
DRY WEIGHT
581kg
1281lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
665kg
1466lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map a control for
Brake Bias adjustment. While this is not mandatory, this will allow 
you to make quick changes to the brake bias to suit your driving 
while out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal.
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction.
FIA F4 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated. This is at 7000rpm. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is
not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use
as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper 
racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a 
number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may
load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting
the setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. 
FIA F4 | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in a 
session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to do 
so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The dash display in this car is non-adjustable and features a single page to display critical vehicle information.
DASH CONFIGURATION
LEFT COLUMN
Oil P- Engine oil pressure (Bar or psi)
Oil T -Engine water temperature
 (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Best Lap - Session best lap as mm:ss:ms
CENTER COLUMN
RPM - Engine RPM
Gear - Currently selected gear
RIGHT COLUMN
Wat T - Engine water temperature
 (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Speed - Road speed (km/h or mph)
Last Lap - Previously completed lap time

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
SHIFT LIGHTS & PIT LIMITER
FIA F4 | DASH PAGES
1 Green 6300 RPM
2 Green 6500 RPM
3 Green 6600 RPM
4 Green 6700 RPM
1 Red 6800 RPM
2 Red 6900 RPM
All Flashing 7000 RPM
When the pit limiter is activated a large green box will appear at the base of the dash display.
HALO CENTER PILLAR
To improve driver visibility, the rock screen can be removed via the “Hide Obstructions” setting in the Options menu. To enable this 
option go to the Options and then Graphics menu, then change the “Hide Obstructions” setting to either “Cockpit halo” or “All”. 
This will remove the screen completely but it will still be visible in replays.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Tires fitted to the FIA F4 car can be changed based on weather 
conditions. The Dry option fits a slick tire intended for dry
track conditions while the Wet option fits a treaded tire for
wet track surfaces.
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold 
and hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way 
should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in 
handling balance over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be 
adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up 
to operating temperature.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
Hot pressures should be analyzed once the tires have stabilized 
after a period of laps. As the number of laps per run will vary 
depending upon track length a good starting point is approximately 
50% of a full fuel run.
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car 
has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire 
is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these 
values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance.
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done 
by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on 
track. These values are measured in three zones across the tread
of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
FRONT MAINPLANE ANGLE
The relative angle of attack of the front wing. This is a powerful 
aerodynamic device in terms of balance and total downforce 
produced. Increasing the front mainplane angle results in more total 
cornering capability in medium to high speed corners, a significant 
shift forwards in handling balance (more oversteer) and a slight 
reduction in straight line speed. The front mainplane angle should 
be adjusted in conjunction with the rear wing angle as well as the 
relative difference in front and rear ride heights known as ‘rake’. 
Reducing the rake will shift the aerodynamic balance rearwards 
while increasing it will shift the aerodynamic balance forwards.
AERO SETUP
REAR WING ANGLE
The relative angle of attack of the rear wing. On this car the primary 
purpose of the rear wing is to trim the aerodynamic balance to suit 
changes made to the front mainplane angle. Increasing the rear 
wing angle will produce more downforce, more drag and shift the 
aerodynamic balance rearwards (more understeer). In both balance 
and downforce senses it is relatively less powerful than the front 
mainplane and will require larger step changes to suit any changes 
made to the front mainplane. However, it is relatively more influential 
in terms of drag. As such, at tracks with long straights it may be 
beneficial to focus on reducing the rear wing angle for greater 
straight line speed to aid in overtaking.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
DOWNFORCE TO DRAG
In absolute terms this number represents the amount of downforce 
produced per unit drag and thus represents the overall aerodynamic 
efficiency of the currently selected wing configuration and at speed 
ride heights. This can be useful in evaluating various combinations 
of wings and rake while keeping an equivalent downforce to 
drag number. However, it should be noted that this number only 
represents the efficiency, not the total downforce produced.
As such, it is very possible to create two different packages that 
have the same efficiency but very differing levels of performance in 
terms of mid corner and end of straightaway speeds.
AERO CALCULATOR
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear wing 
setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT result in any 
mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
PUSHROD OFFSET
Used to adjust the front ride height by increasing or decreasing the 
length of the front pushrods. Lengthening the pushrod will increase 
the ride height and shortening the pushrod will reduce the ride 
height. Left and right adjustments are paired and adjusted as one.
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can 
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the number of ARB arms will increase the roll stiffness 
of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing 
mechanical understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more 
responsive steering feel from the driver. Conversely, reducing the 
number of ARB arms will soften the suspension in roll, increasing 
body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a 
less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle 
will increase. Along with this, the effects of softening or stiffening 
the ARB assembly in relation to aerodynamics should also be 
considered, softer ARB assemblies will result in more body roll which 
will decrease control of the aero platform in high speed corners and 
potentially lead to a loss in aero efficiency. 5 configurations of ARB 
arms are available and range from 1 (softest) to 5 (stiffest).
DAMPER COMPRESSION STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper. In this case 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to 
compression) while 10 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result in a faster 
transfer of weight to this end of the car during transient movements 
such as braking and direction change with increased damping 
usually providing an increase in turn-in response but a reduction in 
overall grip in the context of front damping. High speed compression 
damping will increase proportionally to the increase in low speed 
compression damping which will also result in harsher response 
to kerb strikes. At smoother tracks more bump stiffness will 
typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with 
aggressive kerbs less compression damping can result in an
increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control.
DAMPER REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both 
low and high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing 
rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the damper 
extends in both low and high speed situations. A typical low damper 
speed situation would be as the car rolls back to level on a corner 
exit while a high speed situation would be where the suspension
is extending after large kerb contact. 1 is minimum damping
(least resistance to extension) while 10 is maximum damping
(most resistance to extension). While high rebound stiffness will 
result in improved platform control for aerodynamic performance 
and overall chassis response it is important to avoid situations where 
the damper is too slow in rebounding as this will result in the tire 
losing complete contact with the track surface which can induce or 
exacerbate severe oscillations. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones.
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. 
LEFT/RIGHT FRONT
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners, adjustments to cross weight can be made by making 
changes to the corner spring rates, air pressures or alignment at 
each corner of the car.
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. For the FIA F4 
this cannot be easily influenced as individual corner pushrods are 
non-adjustable. However, when running asymmetrical setups some 
difference in corner weights may still be observed.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well
as decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight 
transfer across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce
the weight transfer across the front axle. Minimum legal front ride 
height is 20.0 mm.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness.
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however, they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer springs 
will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs 
in these situations will result in increased overall performance. 
Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch control of 
the platform and ARB changes should be considered when altering 
corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to rear 
roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously. Six options for spring rate are available 
ranging from 88 N/mm (500 lbs/in) to 175 N/mm (1000 lbs/in). 
Pushrod offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior static 
ride heights after any spring rate change.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CASTER
Caster is the vertical angle of the steering axis relative to the side 
view of the chassis. Positive caster angle is where the steering 
axis is leaned rearwards from this viewpoint, the more caster the 
larger the total trail of the contact patch behind the steering axis. 
More caster angle will result in the mechanical trail being a larger 
proportion of the felt steering weight relative to the tires pneumatic 
trail. This will result in a heavier overall steering feel but a possible 
loss in felt feedback from the tire. Increasing caster angle will also 
have secondary effects such as an increase in dynamic camber 
when turning the wheel through large steering angles which can 
be beneficial in chicances or hairpins. As well as this the more 
caster angle the greater the jacking effect during cornering which 
will result in lifting the inside front wheel while lowering the outside 
front wheel. This jacking effect will also result in the unloading and 
potentially lifting of the inside rear wheel which can aid in rotation 
around tight corners.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LEFT/RIGHT REAR
SPRING RATE
Similar to at the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller 
variance in ride height between high and low load cases and will 
produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved 
platform control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be 
particularly prominent when exiting slow speed corners with 
aggressive throttle application. Stiffer springs will tend to react 
poorly during these instances especially so on rough tracks which 
will result in significant traction loss. Spring stiffness should be 
matched to the needs of the racetrack and set such that the 
handling balance is consistent between high and low speed 
cornering. As an example case, a car which suffers from high
speed understeer but low speed oversteer could benefit from an 
increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static 
rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer during slow speed 
cornering while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height
in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance forwards
and reduce understeer. Six options for spring rate are available
88 N/mm (500 lbs/in) to 175 N/mm (1000 lbs/in). Pushrod offsets 
must be adjusted to return the car to the prior static ride heights 
after any spring rate change.
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will 
result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in response 
during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided 
if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce straight line 
speeds. Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values 
equal to prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, 
heavily asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit 
in performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe 
and other setup parameters.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
FIA F4 | USER MANUAL
FIA F4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well as 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance. Minimum legal rear ride height is 
30.0 mm while maximum legal rear ride height is 40.0 mm.
PUSHROD OFFSET
Used to adjust the rear ride height by increasing or decreasing the 
length of the rear pushrods. Lengthening the pushrod will increase 
the ride height and shortening the pushrod will reduce the ride 
height. Left and right adjustments are paired and adjusted as one.
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can 
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll
stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the car to 
“take a set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing the 
ARB assembly stiffness will soften the suspension in roll, increasing 
body roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer. This can result in a
less-responsive feel from the rear especially in transient movements,
but grip across the rear axle will increase. 5 configurations of ARB 
arms are available and range from 1 (softest) to 5 (stiffest).
DAMPER COMPRESSION STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing the compression damping will result in a faster transfer 
of weight to this end of the car during transient movements such as 
accelerating and direction change with increased damping usually 
providing an increase in response but a reduction in overall grip 
especially at corner exit traction in the context of rear dampers. 
Excessively stiff compression damping can cause very poor traction 
on rough tracks as it can result in large tire load variation and a 
reduction in overall grip.
DAMPER REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. As at the front, high rebound 
stiffness will result in improved platform control for aerodynamic 
performance and overall chassis response but it is important to 
avoid situations where the damper is too slow in rebounding as this 
will result in the tire losing complete contact with the track surface. 
This can be particularly detrimental during braking events and during 
the initial turn-in phase though an increase in rebound stiffness can 
help to ‘slow down’ the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are 
applied, potentially increasing braking stability.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Tank capacity is 40 L (10.6 g). 
Adjustable in 1 L (0.26 g) increments.