--- PAGE 1 ---

1
FIA CROSS CAR
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 9
 Front » 11
Chassis » 11
Tires » 9 
 Front Corners » 12 
 Rear Corners » 13
 Rear » 14
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your iRacing membership, and we hope you enjoy the FIA Cross Car. From all of us at 
iRacing, we appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate 
sim racing experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your 
new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
FIA CROSS CAR | TECH SPECS
SLA, COILOVER SHOCKS
Y AMAHA MT-09 890CC 3-CYLINDER
LENGTH
2550 mm
100 in
WIDTH
2080 mm
82 in
DISPLACEMENT
.89 Liters
54 CID
TORQUE
68.6 lb-ft
93 Nm
RPM LIMIT
12,165 RPM 
POWER
120 bhp
89 kW
WHEELBASE
2000 mm
79 in
DRY WEIGHT
340 kg
750 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
435 kg
959 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary, but the clutch isn’t required once the vehicle is 
in motion for upshifts or downshifts. Upshifting can be done without 
FIA CROSS CAR | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
lifting off the throttle, however downshifting will require a small 
throttle blip to unload the transmission. If you downshift too early, 
or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and engine 
speed will be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear and a 
possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
FIA CROSS CAR | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The FIA Cross Car features an AIM MXm digital dash display. This display features two pages, multiple backlight colors, 
and built-in shift lights in one simple module.
PAGE 1 DASH CONFIGURATION
PAGE 2 DASH CONFIGURATION
Tachometer/RPM - A bar-type tachometer at the top of the display 
 shows the current engine RPM as well as a numerical RPM display in 
the upper left. 
GAS % - The upper-right number displays the current throttle pedal 
position in percent
WTS F/C - Current engine cooling fluid temperature, in °F or °C 
depending on the selected garage units, is shown in the upper left 
RPM - Engine RPM is shown in the upper right 
Best - Session best lap time is shown in the lower left
WTS F/C - Current engine cooling fluid temperature, in °F or °C 
depending on the selected garage units, shown in the lower left 
Best - Current session best lap time is shown in the lower right
GAS % - The lower-right number displays the current throttle pedal 
position in percent 
GEAR - The currently-selected gear 

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
Above the digital display is a set of five LEDs that will illuminate from 
left to right as engine RPM increases. Upshifting is recommended as 
soon as all five lights are illuminated.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of 
the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
FIA CROSS CAR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but can result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
TIRES 
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. 
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result 
in more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer 
in right hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making 
changes to the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
SCREEN COLOR
Changes the back-light color for the digital dash display, with no 
effect on vehicle performance. This can also be changed while 
driving via the F8 black box.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the bottom of the car on the front wheel 
centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as well as influencing how well the car handles large bumps or 
jumps. Increasing front ride height can increase front mechanical 
grip by producing more weight transfer when cornering, but can feel 
less responsive in some cases. Conversely, reducing ride height will 
reduce the weight transfer across the front axle, but could feel more 
responsive when turning into a corner.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer 
springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height but can greatly 
reduce mechanical grip, but can prevent the car from bottoming out 
over large jumps. Softer springs will increase mechanical grip and 
help the suspension absorb bumps better, but may not prevent the 
chassis from hitting the ground over large jumps.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting changes how resistant the shocks are 
to compression. Setting “15” is minimum damping (least resistance 
to compression) while “1” is maximum damping (most resistance 
to compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result in faster 
weight transfer to the wheel during transient movements, such 
as braking and direction change, with increased damping usually 
providing an increase in turn-in response but a reduction in overall 
grip in the context of front dampers. Increased bump stiffness can 
also prevent the suspension from absorbing bumps, leading to a loss 
in grip.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both 
low and high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing 
rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the damper 
extends. Setting “37” is minimum damping (least resistance to 
extension) while “1” is maximum damping (most resistance to 
extension). While high rebound stiffness will result in improved 
platform control for better feel and steering response, it is important 
to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this 
will result in the tire losing complete contact with the track surface, 
especially after hard landings.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is further out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of 
longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive camber 
values can produce very high cornering forces but may result in 
frequent lockups under braking.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out (negative 
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller 
variance in ride height through various loads but can result in a loss 
of mechanical grip. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs 
of the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
but the chassis doesn’t impact the ground too often. 
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting changes how resistant the shocks are 
to compression. Setting “15” is minimum damping (least resistance 
to compression) while “1” is maximum damping (most resistance 
to compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result in faster 
weight transfer to the wheel during transient movements, such 
as braking and direction change, with increased damping usually 
providing an increase in turn-in response but a reduction in overall 
grip in the context of front dampers. Increased bump stiffness can 
also prevent the suspension from absorbing bumps, leading to a loss 
in grip
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both 
low and high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing 
rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the damper 
extends. Setting “37” is minimum damping (least resistance to 
extension) while “1” is maximum damping (most resistance to 
extension). While high rebound stiffness will result in improved 
platform control for better feel and steering response, it is important 
to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this 
will result in the tire losing complete contact with the track surface, 
especially after hard landings.
value) will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease straight-
line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and increase 
straight-line stability

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
FIA CROSS CAR | USER MANUAL
FIA CROSS CAR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run negative camber in 
order to increase the lateral grip capability when cornering. However, 
excessive rear camber can reduce the amount of forward traction 
the tires can produce so it’s important to find a balance between 
cornering ability and traction. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. 
BALLAST POSITION
The position of ballast weight can be moved to alter the car’s 
handling characteristics. Shifting the ballast to a forward position 
will increase noseweight, leading to understeer in medium- and high-
speed corners. More rearward positions will reduce noseweight and 
induce oversteer in corners.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the 
chassis on the chassis’s centerline. Increasing rear ride height will 
increase weight transfer across the rear axle and add rear grip while 
cornering, but can lead to a less responsive feeling for the driver. 
Reducing height will reduce weight transfer and induce oversteer but 
risks the chassis grounding out over jumps. 
ARB ARM
The ARB Arms can be changed to further tune the suspension roll 
stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This option changes the 
length of the ARB blades to one of three settings as well as a fourth 
setting that disconnects the rear ARB entirely. Shorter blade settings 
will increase rear roll stiffness and induce oversteer while longer 
blade settings will reduce rear roll stiffness and reduce oversteer. 
Disconnecting the bar will greatly reduce rear roll stiffness and 
induce understeer.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded 
into the world.
SPROCKET GEAR RATIO
The sprocket ratio changes the final drive ratio at the rear axle, 
influencing acceleration and top speed. Smaller sprockets (lower 
number) will increase top speed and reduce acceleration, while 
larger sprockets (higher number) will increase acceleration at the 
expense of top speed.