--- PAGE 1 ---

GEN 3 SUPERCARS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 6
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 6
Dash Pages » 8
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 7
 GENERAL INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup Tips » 20
SETUP TIPS
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 13
Chassis » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 Front ARB » 14
 Front Corners » 15 
 Rear » 18
 Rear ARB » 19
 Rear Corners » 17
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Gen 3 Supercar! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | TECH SPECS
FRONT AND REAR DOUBLE A-ARM WITH 
COILOVER SPRING AND ANTI-ROLL BAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED LS V8
LENGTH
4881 mm
192.2 in
WIDTH
1960 mm
77.2 in
WHEELBASE
2767 mm
109 in
DRY WEIGHT
1340 kg
2954 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1439 kg
3173 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
5.7 Liters
347 cid
TORQUE
508.6 lb-ft
690 Nm
POWER
600 bhp
447 kW
RPM LIMIT
7500
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | TECH SPECS
FRONT AND REAR DOUBLE A-ARM WITH 
COILOVER SPRING AND ANTI-ROLL BAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED COYOTE V8
LENGTH
4881 mm
192.2 in
WIDTH
1960 mm
77.2 in
WHEELBASE
2767 mm
109 in
DRY WEIGHT
1340 kg
2954 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1439 kg
3173 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
5.7 Liters
347 cid
TORQUE
508.6 lb-ft
690 Nm
POWER
600 bhp
447 kW
RPM LIMIT
7500
 

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. Give 
it a bit of throttle and ease off the clutch pedal to get underway. The 
Gen 3 Supercars use a clutchless 6-speed sequential transmission 
with reverse. Upshifts and downshifts don’t require clutch or 
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
throttle blip to move to the next gear, however in some situations 
it’s beneficial to apply a slight throttle blip to downshifts to prevent 
the risk of wheel hopping. Upshifting is recommended when all shift 
lights illuminate in red, usually around 7500rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. 
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup <baseline.sto>. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs. 
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
Both the Chevrolet Camaro and the Ford Mustang feature the same dash display in the same arrangement. 
Two pages are available, one to assist with race starts and one to provide information during on-track sessions.
Left Column
Lap Time The time for the previously-completed lap
Position/Lap Indicator
The gray box below the laptime displays the current session position in blue and the number of completed 
laps in white.
Fuel Lap Amount of fuel used on the previous lap in Liters or Gallons
Engine Temp Engine cooling water temperature in °C or °F
Right Column
Ground Speed Current speed in KPH or MPH
Gear Currently selected transmission gear
Engine Oil Engine oil temperature in °C or °F
Center Column
Laptime Delta Bar
Once a laptime has been recorded in a session the top of the dash will feature a colored bar originating at the 
center. If the current lap is faster than the reference the bar will be Green and move to the right. If the current 
lap is slower than the reference, the bar will turn red and move to the left of the screen.
Gain Loss -/+
The numerical lap time delta between the current lap and the reference lap is shown below the delta bar, 
colored green for a faster lap and red for a slower lap.
Pedal The currently selected Throttle Pedal map. This mirrors the “PEDAL” setting in the F8 black box.
System Lights
These symbols illuminate when various systems are active. The only one that can be controlled in the sim is 
the blue Wiper indicator, shown just under the throttle pedal map setting. Enabling the pit limiter will flash the 
exterior light indicators.
Brake Bias The current brake bias setting is shown at the bottom of the screen.
RACE PAGE

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
Launch Page
Pedal % The position of the throttle pedal, shown as a percentage of the pedal’s full travel
Engine Throttle %
How far the engine throttle is open, as a percentage of the throttle’s full range. This may or may not be the 
same as the Pedal position.
Pedal The currently selected Throttle Pedal map. This mirrors the “PEDAL” setting in the F8 black box.
Line Lock Status
Displays whether the Line Locker system is on or off. If enabled, the box will be purple and the current brake 
system pressure is shown.
Status Lights
These symbols illuminate when various systems are active. The only one that can be controlled in the sim is 
the blue Wiper indicator, shown just under the throttle pedal map setting. Enabling the pit limiter will flash the 
exterior light indicators.
Gear Currently selected transmission gear
Brake Bias The current brake bias setting is shown at the bottom of the screen.
LAUNCH PAGE
SHIFT LIGHTS
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | DASH PAGES
The Launch page is useful for standing starts, displaying helpful information to get a quick start at the beginning of a race.
Eight shift lights are situated above the digital display to indicate 
when the engine has reached the optimum RPM for shifting. Lights 
will illuminate from the outside towards the inside, with all eight 
lights flashing red when the engine has reached the shift point.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
LOCK STATUS LIGHTS
PIT LIMITER
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | DASH PAGES
During heavy braking, the shift LEDs will illuminate in various colors 
to represent wheel lockups. For all LEDs the lights will illuminate 
regardless of which wheel locks up on an axle (if only the LF locks, 
all “front” LEDs will illuminate):
When the pit limiter is active the display is similar to the Launch page but with minor changes.
Red (Inner Two LEDs) - Rear wheel lockup
White (Outer Two LEDs) - Minor Front wheel lockups
Blue (Outer Two LEDs) - Severe Front wheel lockups
Pit Limiter
Speed Lights
When the limiter is active the shift lights will change to an indicator of the vehicle’s speed. If the car is 
traveling below the pit speed limit, the lights will be blue. If the car is at pit road speed limit, the lights will be 
green. If the car is speeding, the lights will be red.
Limiter Status Light When the limiter is active a yellow LED will flash on the upper right of the dash module
Ground Speed Vehicle speed, in kph or mph
Pedal Current Throttle Map setting
Line Lock Status Displays whether the line lock is on or off
Gear Currently selected transmission gear
Throttle %
 Current throttle pedal position, changes color based on position: Blue for 0-39%, Green for 40-60%, 
Red for 61-100%
Bias Current Brake Bias Setting

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.
TIRES 

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
FRONT MC
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels. Adjustments 
to the Front Master Cylinder will automatically change the Brake 
Pressure Bias setting, so adjustments may be needed to reset the 
brake bias following a Master Cylinder change.
REAR MC
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels. Adjustments to the Rear Master 
Cylinder will automatically change the Brake Pressure Bias setting, 
so adjustments may be needed to reset the brake bias following a 
Master Cylinder change.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
THROTTLE MAP
The Throttle Map setting will alter how sensitive the throttle pedal 
feels at low input levels. Of the ten positions available setting #6 
will result in a linear pedal behavior, with consistent engine torque 
delivery through the full range of throttle inputs. Settings 1-5 
progressively get less sensitive in the lower throttle input range, with 
#1 being the least sensitive. Conversely, settings 7-10 become more 
sensitive, seeing more torque delivery earlier in the throttle pedal’s 
travel. 
DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. Two options are 
available as previously described in the dash configuration section of 
this manual.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT ARB
ARB LINKAGE
The front ARB Linkage can be set to one of six options as well as 
operating in two different ways: Linear and Digressive.
The first, more conventional, operation is the Linear mode using 
settings 2–1 (Linear Stiff) and 2–2 (Linear Soft). In these settings, the 
ARB will produce the same consistent rate in all conditions. As usual 
with ARB settings, the stiffer option will induce understeer while 
cornering while the softer option will reduce understeer.
The Digressive modes will alter the ARB stiffness based on the 
overall front ride height. When the front end is low, such as under 
heavy braking or driving through a dip, the bar will soften, reducing 
understeer at corner entry. As the front end rises, the bar will begin 
to stiffen. This can be very helpful when good turn-in is necessary 
without hurting corner-exit traction, but can also lead to handling 
instabilities if the front end moves too much through a corner, such 
as through a banked turn or over crests and dips. Four options 
are available for the Digressive mode, with 1–1 being the stiffest 
option and 3–2 being the softest. Setting 2-1 and 3–1 are mid-range 
settings, with 2–1 being the stiffer of these two options. Changing 
the setting will keep the same digressive rate curve, but stiffen or 
soften the bar overall. 
ARB BLADE ANGLE
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be changed to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This 
option changes the angle of the ARB arms relative to the ground 
with 0 Degrees being the softest and 90 degrees being the stiffest. 
Stiffer settings will result in a stiffer overall ARB system and more 
understeer, while softer settings will reduce understeer.
ARB PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Following chassis adjustments, this adjustment can be 
used to remove the static load in the bar to prevent asymmetrical or 
unexpected handling characteristics. Keep the value at or near zero 
for the most consistent performance.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the bottom surface of the car’s floor 
on the front wheel centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle's 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing 
front ride height will allow for more weight transfer across the front 
axle, slightly increasing oversteer when cornering, while reducing 
front ride height reduces the weight transfer across the front axle, 
which can produce a more stable-feeling front end. Generally, 
keeping the front ride heights low, but still high enough to clear 
bumps and kerbs, is best.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer 
springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between high 
and low load cases, but can hurt mechanical grip if the difference 
in max and minimum load is too great or too sudden. Typically the 
drawbacks of stiffer springs will become more pronounced on 
rougher tracks and softer springs in these situations will result in 
increased overall performance. Smoother tracks can sometimes see 
better performance with stiffer springs due to a more consistent 
chassis attitude and more responsive handling.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of the 
damper. For the Supercars, setting “40” is minimum damping (least 
resistance to compression) while “0” is maximum damping (most 
resistance to compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result 
in faster weight transfer to the wheel during transient movements, 
such as braking and direction change, with increased damping 
usually providing an increase in turn-in response but a reduction in 
overall grip in the context of front dampers. High speed compression 
damping will increase proportionally to the increase in low speed 
compression damping which will also result in harsher response to 
kerb strikes. At smoother tracks more bump stiffness (lower number) 
will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones 
with aggressive kerbs less compression damping (higher number) 
can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of 
platform control.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both 
low and high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing 
rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the damper 
extends in both low and high speed situations. A typical low damper 
speed situation would be as the car rolls back to level on a corner 
exit while a high speed situation would be when the suspension is 
extending after large kerb contact. Setting “40” is minimum damping 
(least resistance to extension) while “0” is maximum damping 
(most resistance to extension). While high rebound stiffness will 
result in improved platform control and overall chassis response 
it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in 
rebounding as this will result in the tire losing complete contact 
with the track surface which can induce or exacerbate severe 
oscillations. The lack of aerodynamic downforce on the Supercars 
means it will usually perform better with lower rebound forces 
(higher click numbers).high speed cornering but will result in a loss 
of braking performance and necessitate a rearward shift in brake 
bias to compensate.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out (negative value) 
will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease straight-line 
stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and increase 
straight-line stability.
ROLL CENTER
The front Roll Center is a suspension geometry parameter that 
affects the amount of weight transfer during cornering. This can 
be run at the Baseline value, raised 40mm (1.6”), or lowered 30mm 
(1.2”). Raising the front Roll Center will increase front roll stiffness 
and induce understeer while lowering the front roll center will reduce 
front roll stiffness and induce oversteer.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the bottom surface of the car’s floor 
on the rear wheel centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle's 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing rear 
ride height will allow for more weight transfer across the rear axle, 
slightly increasing oversteer when cornering, while reducing rear 
ride height reduces the weight transfer across the rear axle, which 
can produce a more stable-feeling rear end, especially under heavy 
throttle application.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise the corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
Changes the installed coil spring rate. Without aerodynamic 
considerations, the rear springs will influence how much grip is 
available on throttle application and how the car reacts at turn-in. 
Stiffer springs will be more responsive at corner entry, shifting the 
balance towards oversteer but could hurt forward grip on throttle 
application, especially on low-grip or bumpy surfaces. Softer springs 
will give a more sluggish, understeery turn-in response, but will allow 
for more aggressive throttle application on corner exit. 
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing the compression damping will result in faster weight 
transfer to the wheel during transient movements, such as 
accelerating and direction change, with increased damping usually 
providing an increase in response but a reduction in overall grip 
especially at corner exit traction in the context of rear dampers. 
Excessively stiff compression damping can cause very poor 
traction on rough tracks as it can result in large tire load variation 
and a reduction in overall grip. As with the front shocks, setting 
“40” is minimum compression damping and “0” is maximum 
compression damping.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. High rebound stiffness will result 
in improved platform control for aerodynamic performance and 
overall chassis response but it is important to avoid situations where 
the shock is too slow in rebounding as this will result in the tire losing 
complete contact with the track surface. This can be particularly 
detrimental during braking events and during the initial turn-in phase 
though an increase in rebound stiffness can help to “slow down” 
the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are applied, potentially 
increasing braking stability. As with the front shocks, setting “40” is 
minimum rebound damping and “0” is maximum rebound damping.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER
Rear Camber can be adjusted to alter the amount of lateral and 
longitudinal force the tire is capable of producing while cornering 
and accelerating. Running more negative camber will increase lateral 
force from the tire, helping to keep the car stable when cornering. 
This can hurt acceleration, however, as more negative camber will 
reduce the amount of traction the tire is capable of producing. Less 
negative camber will provide more traction on acceleration, but 
could result in the rear of the car feeling light through medium- to 
high-speed corners.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. 
Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and 
a reduction in response during direction changes. Large values of 
toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag 
and reduce straight line speeds. Generally, it is advised to keep the 
left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or asymmetric 
handling behavior.
DROOP TRAVEL
Suspension Droop is how far the suspension can extend when 
unloaded. By changing the amount of droop available, the inside 
rear wheel can be intentionally unloaded when cornering to help the 
car rotate into and through a corner. Increasing the Droop Travel 
setting will allow the suspension to extend further and keep the 
wheel loaded while cornering, decreasing the setting will restrict 
suspension movement and lift the inside rear wheel when cornering.
ROLL CENTER
The Rear Roll Center is a parameter of the rear suspension geometry 
that directly affects weight transfer and roll stiffness in the rear 
suspension. Higher Roll Center values will increase rear roll stiffness, 
reduce rear body roll, and increase oversteer when cornering, while 
lower Roll Center values will reduce roll stiffness, increase body roll, 
and and increase understeer. The Roll Center setting is a very rough 
adjustment and may require an adjustment to rear ARB size to avoid 
compounding changes: Lowering the roll center may require a 
stiffer rear arb and raising the roll center may require softening 
the rear arb.
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded 
into the world.
DROP GEAR RATIO 
The Drop Gear is a set of quick-change gears that alter the final 
drive gear ratio. Higher ratios will provide better acceleration but a 
lower top speed, while lower ratios will increase top speed at the 
expense of acceleration. See the Setup Tips section for a list of gear 
recommendations from the real-world Supercars Series.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR ARB
ARB BLADE ANGLE
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be changed to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This 
option changes the angle of the ARB arms relative to the ground 
with 0 Degrees being the softest and 90 degrees being the stiffest. 
Stiffer settings will result in a stiffer overall ARB system and more 
oversteer, while softer settings will reduce oversteer.
ARB PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Following chassis adjustments, this adjustment can be 
used to remove the static load in the bar to prevent asymmetrical or 
unexpected handling characteristics. Keep the value at or near zero 
for the most consistent performance.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | USER MANUAL
DRIVING & SETUP TIPS
The Gen 3 Supercars are a large step away from the principles 
used in previous years for the series, with a very large drop in 
aerodynamic performance and more emphasis placed on mechanical 
grip and driver skill. When compared with the Gen 2 Supercars, 
aerodynamic loads can be halved, or even less, in similar conditions. 
Most corners will see so little aerodynamic performance that it can 
largely be ignored, changing how the car will be driven and setup 
from years past.
With such low aerodynamic performance, one of the biggest 
changes to the driver is the responsiveness and feel, especially at 
high speeds. Despite low aerodynamic loading, there is still a small 
amount situated near the rear of the car, which lends itself to a more 
understeery turn-in at high- and medium-speed corners compared 
to previous generations.
SETUP CONSIDERATIONS
Setup choices will be almost entirely based on maximizing 
mechanical grip and managing wheel loads. Softer springs and 
higher ride heights will result in more mechanical grip, with the 
Droop Limiter adjustment controlling how loaded the inside rear tire 
is while cornering. 
Springs will see good performance when run as soft as the driver 
can handle, but stiff enough to keep the car from bottoming out 
under heavy loads. Rear springs can be used to tune in rear grip in 
both lateral and longitudinal grip, but at higher grip tracks can be run 
stiffer to help the car rotate into higher-speed corners.
Shocks can be helpful for controlling how fast the chassis pitches 
and rolls, but it’s very important to remember the numbering 
convention for the adjustments: Lower “click” values are more 
damping forces. For example, if the front end dives too quickly 
then reducing the click value on front shock compression and rear 
rebound will slow the chassis pitch movement.
DROOP TRAVEL LIMITER
The rear Droop Travel setting is extremely effective at tuning 
to various grip levels and, for many tracks, can be the biggest 
adjustment for dialing a car in. Smaller values (more travel limit) 
will unload the inside rear wheel sooner at turn-in and induce more 
oversteer through the corner until steering input is relaxed for corner 
exit. Larger values will let the suspension extend further, keeping 
the inner rear wheel on the track and loaded. Generally, lower-grip 
tracks (like Street Circuits) will see better performance from running 
a higher Travel value and keeping the inner wheel loaded. Higher 
grip tracks where there is enough to keep the car stable on three 
wheels can see better performance from reducing the travel and 
lifting the inside rear wheel.
This adjustment can manifest a few different ways due to what it 
affects as the car is cornering. Most obvious is the unloaded inner 
rear wheel, dramatically shifting the dynamic crossweight to load 
the inner front and outer rear wheels, helping the car turn into the 
corner. Since the car has a spool instead of a differential, lifting the 
inner rear wheel also eliminates the “scrub” from this inside wheel 
since it will always rotate at the same speed as the outside rear 
wheel, causing understeer. It’s important to test various settings at 
all types of tracks to see what works for the driver and how it affects 
the chassis feel.
DIGRESSIVE ARB
One of the more interesting adjustments on the Gen 3 Supercars is 
the variable-rate ARB mechanism in the front suspension. When in 
use, the ARB will have a softer rate when the front end is running 
lower, such as under heavy braking, and a stiffer rate when the front 
end rises up, such as on throttle. This is an excellent tool to use to 
overcome the car’s inherent understeer at high-speeds, and when 
paired with good trail-braking technique can essentially eliminate the 
understeer entirely.
Despite the benefits, this does have a few drawbacks that become 
apparent at tracks with large dips and banked corners. If a turn 
happens to go through a dip that compresses the front end (or a 
crest that causes the nose to “pop” up), the ARB can change rate 
mid-corner, shifting the handling balance very suddenly. Similarly, 
if a corner is banked it will try to compress the front end, reducing 
the suspension’s roll stiffness and causing the outer front corner to 
contact the racing surface. If this happens, it’s important to consider 
the possible solutions to correct the issue. Stiffer springs will lift 
the front end in the corner, but could hurt mechanical grip in other 
corners, for example. Instead, a more effective fix would be to switch 
to a stiffer digressive option, increasing the bar rate throughout the 
range of travel and keeping the front roll stiffness higher.
DROP GEAR SETTINGS
The Gen 3 Supercars allow for 6 drop gear options to tune 
acceleration and top speed for any track. The real series mandates 
specific gears for each track, some of which (and their backup 
options) are listed below as starting points if needed:
Bathurst (Mount Panorama Circuit): 0.931, 0.909, 1.000
Phillip Island: 1.000, 0.931, 1.042
Sandown: 1.000, 0.931, 1.042
Winton: 1.130, 1.074
GEN 3 SUPERCARS | SETUP TIPS