--- PAGE 1 ---

1
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire » 9
 Front Corners » 11
 Front » 9
Suspension » 9 
 Left / Right Rear » 13 
 Rear » 14
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your iRacing membership, and we hope you enjoy the Global Mazda MX5 Cup car. 
From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to 
deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us 
behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE-WISHBONE FRONT, 
MULTI-LINK REAR SUSPENSION
SKY ACTIV-G 16-VALVE 4 CYLINDER
LENGTH
3911 mm
153.9 in
WIDTH
1727 mm
68 in
WHEELBASE
2311 mm
91 in
DRY WEIGHT
975 kg
2150 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1008 kg
2224 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
2.0 Liters
244.1 cid
TORQUE
151 lb-ft
204 Nm
POWER
181 bhp
135 kW
RPM LIMIT
7500
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
The Mazda MX-5 requires the clutch to be depressed prior to 
engaging the engine starter for safety reasons. If you are using the 
Manual Clutch setting, be sure to have the clutch fully depressed 
when starting the car or the starter will not turn on. If you are using 
Auto Clutch or a shifting aid, you can start the engine like any 
other car.
Once the engine is started, leaving the pits is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal while slowly releasing the clutch if using Manual Clutch. 
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require a 
clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are flashing. This occurs at 7400 RPM, the rev limiter kicks in at 
7500 RPM.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup “baseline.sto”. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes.
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” 
on the right side of the garage.
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in 
a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to 
do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The dash display in this car is non-adjustable and features a single page to display critical vehicle information. 
Six numbered status indicator lights are featured in the top left and 
top right of the dash within the outer frame. Each light displays a 
different condition, with the light’s color representing a different 
level of each condition:
1. Engine Warning - Will illuminate in red if a serious engine 
 problem is present, usually paired with a message on the 
 main display.
2. Water Temperature - Flashes blue whenever the engine 
 cooling water is overheated
3. Fuel Level - Displays fuel level in three stages based on 
 percent of a full tank: 
 Green: More than 25% of fuel level remaining 
 Y ellow: Less than 25%, but more than 15% 
 Red (Flashing): Less than 15% remaining
4. Inoperable
5. Inoperable
6. Pit Limiter - Flashes yellow when pit speed limiter is on. 
 NOTE: Pit speed limiter is only available in 1st gear.
The Global MX-5 is equipped with an AiM MXL2 Digital Dash to show 
the driver all vital information in an easy-to-read display.
• RPM Band - Displays engineer RPM by filling-in segments 
 around the top of the display. Every line is 1000 RPM.
• Speed - Vehicle speed is shown in the center of the display 
 just underneath the “7” on the RPM Band.
• Gear - The currently selected gear is on the right of 
 the RPM band
• H20T - Water Temperature in the engine cooling system
• GPS: Good - GPS Connection status
• Lap - Displays the number of laps completed. 
 This does not reset to zero when returning to the garage.
• Lap Time - The previously completed lap time is displayed 
 in the center bottom of the display.
• Engine Warning Box - Should a serious issue develop with 
 the engine, a boxed message will appear on the right side 
 of the display.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
SHIFT LIGHTS
When the pit limiter is active the yellow light beside the 6 will flash. The right side of the dash will also be changed to only display 
“Pit Speed” The pit limiter is only available in 1st gear, shifting up will deactivate it.
The dash lights illuminate in pairs, meeting in the middle and then flash when the car should be shifted.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE COMPOUND
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
SUSPENSION
TIRE
FRONT
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of the 
tires. Toe-out will destabilize the car in a straight line but this will 
increase turn-in response at the cost of increased tire temperature 
and wear. Reducing toe-out (and even running toe-in) will stabilize 
the car in a straight line and reduce temperature and wear, but 
could make the car sluggish in response to steering inputs.
ANTI-ROLL BAR
The front Anti-Roll Bar can be set to one of three settings to change 
the roll stiffness of the front suspension. Softer settings will reduce 
front suspension roll stiffness, reducing understeer but slightly 
reducing the front end’s responsiveness to quick steering inputs. 
Firmer settings will increase the front suspension roll stiffness, 
increasing understeer and steering response.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car. When adjusting 
cross weight, be sure to adjust the perch offsets in pairs (both 
fronts, LR+RF or RR+LF, all four) to avoid dramatically altering 
the ride heights. Changing ride heights will alter the suspension 
dynamics on its own, which could mask or conflict with the desired 
crossweight adjustment.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold and hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to 
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed once the tires 
have stabilized after a period of laps. As the number of laps per 
run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is 
approximately 50% of a full fuel run or race length, whichever is 
more appropriate for the event. 
LAST TEMPS O M I (TIRE TEMPERATURES)
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track are 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight placement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis just 
behind the front wheels. Since these values are measured to a 
specific reference point on the car, these values may not necessarily 
reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a 
reliable value for the height of the car off of the race track at static 
values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s mechanical grip when 
cornering and responsiveness. Increasing front ride height will allow 
for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering, 
usually reducing understeer but sometimes reducing front-end 
responsiveness. Conversely, reducing ride height will reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle, which can induce understeer 
but usually provides a more responsive feel to the driver.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the corner of the car by changing 
the static preload on the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering the corner of the car and reducing the corner 
weight, while reducing the spring perch offset will raise the corner 
of the car and increase the corner weight (along with changes to 
the other three corner weights). These changes should be kept 
symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same corner 
ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch offsets 
can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to change 
the static cross weight in the car. 
COMPRESSION DAMPING
The compression damping setting is a paired adjustment controlling 
both the low and high speed damping characteristics of the 
damper. For the MX-5, “0” is the minimum damping setting (least 
resistance to compression) while “+11” is maximum damping (most 
resistance to compression). Increasing the compression damping 
will result in a faster transfer of weight to the wheel during transient 
movements such as braking and direction change with increased 
damping usually providing an increase in turn-in response but a 
reduction in overall grip. High speed compression damping will 
increase proportionally to the increase in low speed compression 
damping which will also result in harsher response to kerb strikes. At 
smoother tracks more compression damping will typically increase 
performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs 
less compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. 
REBOUND DAMPING
The Rebound damping setting is a paired adjustment to both low and 
high speed rebound damping characteristics. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. A typical low damper speed 
situation would be as the car rolls back to level on a corner exit while 
a high speed situation would be where the suspension is extending 
after large kerb contact. Setting “0” is minimum damping (least 
resistance to extension) while “+11” is maximum damping (most 
resistance to extension). While high rebound stiffness will result in 
improved chassis response it is important to avoid situations where 
the shock is too slow in rebound (set to high) as this will result in the 
tire losing complete contact with the track surface which can induce 
or exacerbate severe oscillations. 
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LEFT / RIGHT REAR
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the 
chassis just in front of the rear wheels. Increasing rear ride height 
will allow for more weight transfer across the rear axle when 
cornering, typically inducing oversteer. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will reduce weight transfer across the rear axle, typically 
inducing understeer.
COMPRESSION DAMPING
The compression damping setting is a paired adjustment controlling 
both the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper 
with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing the 
compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to 
the wheel during transient movements such as accelerating and 
direction change with increased damping usually providing an 
increase in response but a reduction in overall grip. Excessively 
stiff compression damping can cause very poor traction on rough 
tracks as it can result in large tire load variation and a reduction in 
overall grip.
REBOUND DAMPING
The rebound damping setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. As at the front, high rebound 
stiffness will result in improved platform control and better overall 
chassis response but it is important to avoid situations where the 
shock is too slow in rebound (set too high) as this will result in the 
tire losing complete contact with the track surface. This can be 
particularly detrimental during braking events and during the initial 
turn-in phase, though an increase in rebound stiffness can help to 
‘slow down’ the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are applied, 
potentially increasing braking stability. 
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Similar to the front of the car it is desirable to 
run significant amounts of negative camber in order to increase the 
lateral grip capability; however it is typical to run slightly reduced 
rear camber relative to the front. This is primarily because rear 
tires must also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where 
benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance. 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | USER MANUAL
GLOBAL MAZDA MX-5 CUP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels 
are closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheels, and Toe-
out is the opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. 
Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and 
a reduction in response during direction changes. Large values of 
toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag 
and reduce straight line speeds. 
ANTI-ROLL BAR
The rear Anti-Roll Bar can be run one of two ways: “OEM” and 
“Unhooked”. When “OEM” is selected, the stock rear Anti-Roll Bar 
is attached, increasing rear suspension stiffness and inducing 
oversteer while cornering. When “Unhooked” is selected, the rear 
Anti-Roll Bar is detached, dramatically reducing rear roll stiffness, 
which will induce understeer.