--- PAGE 1 ---

1
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
Dash Pages » 7 
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 9
 Front » 10
Chassis » 10
Tires » 9 
 Front Corners » 11 
 Rear Corners » 13
 Rear » 14
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Chassis Adjustments » 17
 Rear Alignment » 17
 Aerodynamic Adjustments » 16
Setup Tips » 15
SETUP TIPS
 Brake System Settings » 16

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Honda Civic Type R TCR! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | TECH SPECS
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
FRONT-ENGINE, FRONT-WHEEL DRIVE 
WITH FRONT MCPHERSON STRUT & 
REAR MULTILINK SUSPENSION
TURBOCHARGED IN-LINE 4 CYLINDER
LENGTH
4,549mm
179in
WIDTH
1,950mm
77in
DISPLACEMENT
2.0 Liters
122CID
TORQUE
310lb-ft
420Nm
RPM LIMIT
7000RPM
 
POWER
350bhp
260kW
WHEELBASE
2,700mm
106in
DRY WEIGHT
1406kg
3100lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1480kg
3262lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias adjustment. While this is not mandatory, this will allow you to 
make quick changes to the brake bias to suit your driving style 
while on track.
Once you load into the car, depress the clutch and select 1st gear. 
Slowly release the clutch while applying the throttle to drive away. 
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
The Honda Civic Type R features six forward gears and one reverse 
gear, and does not require clutch use once the vehicle is in motion 
for upshifts or downshifts. A clutch is necessary when coming to 
a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into reverse if 
necessary. To upshift, simply press the assigned button to select 
the next higher gear. To downshift, press the downshift button to 
select the next lower gear.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup <baseline.sto>. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs. 
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | INTRODUCTION
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The Honda Civic Type R features a single-page digital dash display to provide the driver with all relevant 
information during a session. 
DASH 1
Display
Speed The vehicle’s speed is shown in the upper left of the display
Tachometer Engine RPM is shown in the large curved bar in the center of the display
Gear Indicator The selected gear is shown as a large number in the lower center of the display
H20 Temp Temperature of the engine cooling system, in °C or °F
Oil Temp Temperature of the engine oil, in °C or °F
Fuel Used
The volume of fuel missing from the tank compared to a full tank (100 L, 26.4 gal). For example if the tank has 
60 Liters in it, this will show “40” regardless if that much fuel has been used in the session. This value will 
always round down to a whole number, so if 6.9L has been used the display will show “6”, not “7”.
Oil Pres Oil pressure in the engine oil system, shown in Bar for Metric and Pounds-per-Square-Inch (psi) for Imperial
Lap Time Displays the previously completed lap time
Gain/Loss
Displays the difference between the current lap and the session best lap. If the current lap is better than the 
session best, this value will be surrounded by a green box. If the current lap is slower than the session best, 
this value will be surrounded by a red box.
Ref Lap Time
The lap time that is being referenced by the Gain/Loss display. This will always reference the Session Best 
lap time.
The display features status LEDs on the left and right of the main display, and a row of shift lights at the top. When the Pit Limiter is active, 
the shift lights will alternate between White and off. When the RPM has reached the optimal shift point, the shift lights will change from Green 
to Red and begin flashing.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for rain and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, 
but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require higher 
pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance 
from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track 
characteristics for optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should 
build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling 
balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be 
adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up 
to operating temperature.
TIRES
TIRE SETTINGS
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car 
has returned from the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a 
tire is doing on-track is reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these 
values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. Center 
temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done by 
each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment while on track. These values are 
measured in three zones across the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT 
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage across the 
front axle. Higher Nose Weight values will induce understeer when 
cornering and promote straight-line stability, while lower Nose 
Weight values will increase oversteer while cornering. This is not 
directly adjustable and is altered by other adjustments, such as 
Fuel Level.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
settings to move weight between the four wheels. It’s best to keep 
this value as close to 50.0% as possible to ensure symmetrical 
handling characteristics.
ARB SETTING
The ARB Setting controls the overall stiffness of the front ARB 
assembly. Higher values will increase the front suspension roll 
stiffness, which will induce understeer when cornering. Lower values 
will decrease the front suspension roll stiffness, reducing understeer.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the front wheels, when viewed from above, 
relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive values for this 
setting are Toe-In, negative values are Toe-out. Toe-in is when the 
front of the wheels are closer to the centerline than the rear of the 
wheels, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-
out will decrease straight-line stability by increasing the slip angle 
on the inside tire when turning. This can aid in turn-in response but 
can make it easier to over-slip the tire and lose grip with too much 
steering angle. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in responsiveness 
but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
ABS SETTING
The Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) can be changed to suit various 
track conditions or driving styles across 12 settings. Setting 0 will 
turn the system off, while settings 1-11 will enable the ABS system 
with higher assist at higher values. This value can be adjusted via 
the F8 Black Box.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force 
to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a 
given situation.
REAR BRAKE VALVE
The Rear Brake Valve setting controls the amount of braking 
pressure that goes to the rear wheels, allowing rear brake 
adjustment without altering the amount of pressure that goes to the 
front wheels. Increasing the Rear Brake Valve value will generate 
more brake line pressure to the rear wheels, producing a similar 
effect to reducing front brake bias, without reducing the braking 
force to the front wheels. Reducing the Rear Brake Valve setting 
will reduce brake pressure to the rear wheels, similar to shifting the 
brake bias forward.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HANDBRAKE RATIO
The Handbrake Ratio setting changes how aggressively the 
handbrake is applied. Larger ratios will apply a more aggressive 
force, making it easier to lock the rear wheels when the handbrake is 
applied, while a lower ratio will not lock the wheels as easily.
LAUNCH RPM LIMIT
For standing starts, the RPM limiter can be adjusted up or down to 
optimize launch for different grip levels. Higher limits can prevent the 
engine from bogging down, but can spin the front tires more easily.
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CENTER SPLITTER HEIGHT
The front splitter ground clearance is shown in the garage. This is 
not directly adjustable but will change based on other settings in the 
garage. There are no tech-inspection checks on this value and it only 
serves as a reference for the car’s attitude under static conditions.
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as 
decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight 
by changing the preload on the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight 
to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing 
the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right together, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car 
to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer 
springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however, they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. The drawbacks of stiffer springs will become 
more pronounced on rougher tracks where softer springs will 
result in increased overall performance. Corner spring changes will 
influence both roll and pitch control of the platform and ARB changes 
should be considered when altering corner spring stiffnesses in 
order to retain the same front to rear roll stiffness and handling 
balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness the ARB stiffness 
should be increased to retain the same roll stiffness as before the 
spring change. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the 
car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher Bump Stiffness values will slow suspension travel and 
increase wheel load during travel, but reduces how well the 
suspension can handle bumps. Reducing Bump Stiffness can help 
the suspension absorb bumps, but can reduce how responsive the 
chassis feels to the driver.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound 
values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the 
wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. Excessive rebound can also 
lead to unwanted oscillations caused by the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Increasing front camber values 
will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to high 
speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and 
necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
This displays the weight on each wheel while sitting in the garage 
under static conditions. Useful for determining weight distribution 
during chassis adjustments.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce but will 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance, and static rear ride heights should be 
considered and matched to the chosen rear corner springs for 
optimal performance
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight 
by changing the preload on the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight 
to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing 
the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right together, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low loads and will produce better 
aerodynamic performance through improved platform control at the 
expense of mechanical grip. Spring stiffness should be matched to 
the needs of the racetrack and set such that the handling balance 
is consistent between high and low speed cornering. Increasing rear 
spring rate will allow for a lower static rear height which will reduce 
rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering while maintaining 
or even increasing the rear ride height in high speed cornering to 
shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and reduce understeer. 
Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior 
static ride heights after any spring rate change.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher Bump Stiffness values will slow suspension travel and 
increase wheel load during travel, but reduces how well the 
suspension can handle bumps. Reducing Bump Stiffness can help 
the suspension absorb bumps, but can reduce how responsive the 
chassis feels to the driver.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound 
values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the 
wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. Excessive rebound can also 
lead to unwanted oscillations caused by the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability. 
Since the rear wheels are not driven and are typically under less load 
than the fronts, the rear tires will usually see better performance 
with less camber than the front tires. More rear camber will increase 
cornering forces from the tires as increasing wear and heat buildup, 
but will decrease maximum braking capacity from the tires.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car 
leaves the garage.
ARB SETTING
The ARB Setting controls the overall stiffness of the rear ARB 
assembly. Higher values will increase the rear suspension roll 
stiffness, which will induce oversteer when cornering. Lower values 
will decrease the rear suspension roll stiffness, reducing oversteer.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the rear wheels, when viewed from above, 
relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive values for this 
setting are Toe-In, negative values are Toe-out. Toe-in is when 
the front of the wheels are closer to the centerline than the rear of 
the wheels, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the rear end, adding 
toe-out will decrease straight-line stability and can induce oversteer 
suddenly in some cases. Toe-in at the rear will reduce turn-in 
responsiveness but will increase straight-line stability.
REAR WING SETTING 
The rear wing’s angle of attack can be changed via the Rear 
Wing Setting. Higher angles will cause the wing to produce more 
downforce and shift aero balance rearward, inducing understeer in 
mid- to high-speed corners, but will increase drag. Lower angles will 
reduce the amount of downforce generated and shift aero balance 
forward, increasing oversteer in mid- and high-speed corners, but 
will also reduce the amount of drag produced by the wing. Angle 
settings are available from -4.0° to +4.0° , however it is important to 
note that all angles will produce downforce, and negative angles do 
not produce lift.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
The following iRacing setups are provided in the iRacing 
setups folder:
Baseline - 50L fuel with conservative handling characteristics for 
your first time in the car.
Baseline Wet - 50L fuel with setup adjustments and wet tires fitted 
for wet weather conditions.
Fixed - 25L fuel for the 15 minute official fixed sprint series.
Fixed Nordschleife - 38L fuel for the longer fixed race 
at Nürburgring.
Medium Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for a variety of tracks.
Low Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for tracks like Daytona or Le Mans 
where minimizing drag is important.
High Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for tighter, twisty tracks where high 
levels of downforce (and possibly less rotation) is preferred.
Endurance - Full fuel for long endurance races with a medium 
downforce trim.
BRAKE SYSTEM SETTINGS
AERODYNAMIC ADJUSTMENTS
This car has a Brake Bias Adjuster to change the pressure balance 
between the front and rear brake lines.
The Honda Civic Type R also has a Rear Brake Pressure Limiter 
(Proportioning Valve), which reduces the amount of pressure going 
to the rear brakes (it has no effect on front line pressure) for a given 
pedal force input. It also allows the effective brake bias (% Front 
line pressure) to move forward in heavy braking conditions. Since 
front wheel drive cars do not have much static load on the rear 
tires, hard braking can result in lightly-loaded rear tires. A properly 
adjusted Proportioning Valve can keep the rear tires from locking 
in these situations.
The easiest way to make changes to the handling is to adjust the 
rear wing setting. A higher angle (more positive) wing setting is a 
more rearward aero balance (understeer) as well as more drag. A 
wing setting of -2 is a reasonable place to start if you are unsure of 
a reasonable wing trim for any given track. You may find you want 
more rotation (less wing) or less rotation (more wing) from there.
 Higher Wing (More Positive) = Less Rotation / More 
 Downforce and Drag
 Lower Wing (More Negative) = More Rotation / Less 
 Downforce and Drag
Higher Prop Valve settings allow more rear brake line pressure and 
stopping power but risk locking the rear brakes. Each Prop Valve 
adjustment down from the maximum increases the effective % Front 
line pressure by about 1%. The lowest Prop Valve setting limits rear 
brake line pressure the most, this forces the front brakes to do the 
most work and will increase stopping distances.
Set your Brake Bias Adjuster first and tune it for low and medium 
pedal force situations, then set the Proportioning Valve next as a 
way to fine-tune high pedal force braking.
Lower Brake Valve Setting = Higher effective brake bias during 
heavy brake situations.
Higher Brake Valve Setting = Lower effective brake bias during 
heavy brake situations.
If you find you wish to change the aero balance of the car without 
changing your downforce trim (wing setting), you can adjust the 
rake of the vehicle with the spring perch adjustments on each 
corner of the car. More rake (higher rear, lower front) will move aero 
balance forward (more rotation) and less rake (lower rear, higher 
front) will more aero balance rearward (less rotation). It is worth 
noting that keeping the splitter (front) height low is important for 
making downforce and aero efficiency. It is recommended that when 
adjusting rake you adjust rear heights while keeping front heights at 
minimum for all but the most extreme of situations.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | USER MANUAL
HONDA CIVIC TYPE R TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
It is also possible to affect the dynamic aero balance with front and 
rear spring selection. A softer spring at front or rear will allow more 
deflection under load which will let that end of the car travel more 
(lower ride heights) while a stiffer spring will hold up that end of the 
car more under the same load. You can affect the rake of the car 
while on track with these adjustments.
More Rake (Higher Rear vs Front) = More Rotation
Less Rake (Lower Rear vs Front) = Less Rotation
If you would like to change the mechanical balance without changing 
the aero balance the front and rear ARBs and ARB arms may be 
adjusted.
Bigger Front ARB/Shorter ARB Arms = Less rotation
Smaller Front ARB/Longer ARB Arms = More rotation
Bigger Rear ARB/Shorter ARB Arms = More rotation
Smaller Rear ARB/Longer ARB Arms = Less rotation
REAR ALIGNMENT
It is expected you may wish to run some amount of rear toe out to 
increase rotation and drive off in this front wheel drive car. More toe 
out (negative) will result in more rotation on entry and mid corner. 
You may find less toe out (more positive) may suit your driving style 
or keep rotation more consistent for your driving, setup, or track 
conditions. Some experimentation is encouraged here! This can be 
a powerful adjustment!