--- PAGE 1 ---

HYUNDAI VELOSTER
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
 Brake System Settings » 19
Dash Pages » 7 
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 11
 Front » 12
Chassis » 12
Tires » 11 
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear Corners » 16
 Rear » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Chassis Adjustments » 20
 Rear Alignment » 20
 Aerodynamic Adjustments » 19
Setup Tips » 18
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Touring car racing remains one of the world’s most popular forms of road racing, combining approachable 
front-wheel drive cars with some of the most legendary circuits on the planet. The result is an aggressive, 
elbows-out form of road racing that proves to be just as much fun for the drivers behind the wheel as it is 
to watch for the fans in the seats.
Launched in 2019, the Hyundai Veloster N TC was built for Hyundai’s North American teams to 
better reflect Hyundai’s presence in the market. Based on the Hyundai i30 N TC that kicked off the 
brand’s modern dominance of the discipline, the Veloster shares a majority of its components with its 
predecessor, and quickly shared similar successes on the track as well. In 2019, its first season as a part 
of the IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge, Velosters campaigned by the prominent Bryan Herta Autosport team 
went 1-2 in the final standings with a combined four race wins.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | TECH SPECS
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
MCPHERSON STRUT FRONT 
SUSPENSION, 4-ARM MULTI-LINK 
REAR SUSPENSIONN
TURBOCHARGED DOHC 4-CYLINDER
LENGTH
4600 mm
181 in
WIDTH
1950 mm
77 in
DISPLACEMENT
2.0 Liters
122 CID
TORQUE
330lb-ft
450Nm
RPM LIMIT
7000RPM
 
POWER
350bhp
260kW
WHEELBASE
2650 mm
104 in
DRY WEIGHT
1411 kg
3112 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1484 kg
3272 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias adjustment. While this is not mandatory, this will allow you to 
make quick changes to the brake bias to suit your driving style while 
on track.
Once you load into the car, depress the clutch and select 1st gear. 
Slowly release the clutch while applying the throttle to drive away. 
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
The Hyundai Veloster N TCR features six forward gears and one 
reverse gear, and does not require clutch use once the vehicle is 
in motion for upshifts or downshifts. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary. To upshift, simply press the assigned button to 
select the next higher gear. To downshift, press the downshift button 
to select the next lower gear.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup <baseline.sto>. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs. 
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The Hyundai Veloster N TC features a digital dash display with three main pages. Pages change automatically based on 
what the car is doing to display the most relevant data at any given time.
PAGE 1
Display
Gear Indicator The center of the display shows the selected gear (Neutral, for this page).
Tachometer Surrounding the gear indicator is a tachometer displaying engine RPM.
Water Temp The upper left of the display shows the Engine’s Water Temperature
Oil Temp The upper right of the display shows the Engine’s Oil Temperature
Exhaust Gas Temp The lower left of the display shows the engine’s Exhaust Gas Temperature.
Oil Pressure The lower right of the display shows the Engine Oil Pressure.
The first display page is active when the car is stationary and in Neutral.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | DASH PAGES
PAGE 2
Display
Tachometer The upper part of the display shows the engine RPM.
pinlet (mBar)
The center of the display shows the current engine inlet pressure. As RPM is increased for a start, this bar will 
change to green when inlet pressure is optimum for a launch.
CarSpeed The black bar in the lower left shows the vehicle’s speed.
Gear The green bar shows the currently selected gear.
Clutch The red bar in the center displays the current clutch pedal position.
Pedal The second red bar displays the current throttle pedal position.
tExhaust The black bar in the lower right displays the Exhaust Gas Temperature.
The second display page activates when the car is stationary but 1st gear is selected. This page is helpful for standing starts.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | DASH PAGES
PAGE 3
Display
Speed Current vehicle speed is shown in the upper left above the Hyundai Motorsport logo.
Time Time elapsed on the current lap
Tachometer The upper part of the display shows the engine RPM.
tWater Engine Water Temperature is shown on the upper left of the lower section.
pOil Engine Oil Pressure is shown in the lower left, below Water Temperature.
Gear The currently selected gear is shown in the center of the display
timeSlip This shows the difference between the current lap and the session’s best lap
lastLap The lap time for the previously completed lap is shown here.
Lap
The number of laps completed in the current session is shown in the lower right. This value does not reset 
when returning to pit road.
Once the vehicle is moving, the dash will change to the third page. This page displays information relevant for racing, and is the most 
commonly seen dash page.
When the pit limiter is active, Page #3 will change from black to green to show the Pit Speed Limiter is active.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into
the world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions
while Wet tires are intended for rain and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but
will decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and 
heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will 
require higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see 
better performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should
be set to track characteristics for optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of
balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference 
between Cold and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked 
in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate to prevent 
a change in handling balance over the life of the tire, so Cold 
pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at 
similar pressures once up to operating temperature.
TIRES
TIRE SETTINGS
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the
car has returned from the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of 
work a tire is doing on-track is reflected in the tire’s temperature, 
and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work 
done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful 
for analyzing the wheel alignment while on track. These values are 
measured in three zones across the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT 
% FRONT WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage across
the front axle. Higher Nose Weight values will induce understeer 
when cornering and promote straight-line stability, while lower
Nose Weight values will increase oversteer while cornering.
This is not directly adjustable and is altered by other adjustments, 
such as Fuel Level.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear
and Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, 
displayed in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring
Perch Offset settings to move weight between the four wheels. 
It’s best to keep this value as close to 50.0% as possible to ensure 
symmetrical handling characteristics.
ANTI-ROLL BAR DIAMETER
The Anti-Roll Bar Diameter setting controls the roll stiffness in the 
front suspension. Larger front Anti-Roll Bar sizes will increase roll 
stiffness and induce understeer, while smaller Anti-Roll Bar sizes can 
reduce understeer by softening the suspension’s roll stiffness.
ANTI-ROLL BAR ARM LENGTH
The length of the Anti-Roll Bar arms can be adjusted to fine tune
the effective stiffness of the bar without changing the diameter. 
Longer arms (higher number values) will create a softer effective 
stiffness than shorter arms (lower number values). 
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value relating steering wheel angle 
to road wheel angle. This ratio can be thought of as the degrees of 
driver steering input needed to produce one degree of turn of the 
front wheels. For example, a steering ratio of “10” can be thought 
of as requiring 10° of steering input to turn the wheels 1° . A steering 
ratio with a lower ratio will feel more responsive or faster and will 
require less steering input to reach the tire angle needed to navigate 
a corner. Another way to think about this is that for the same 
steering wheel input, a lower steering ratio will produce more road 
wheel turn. The real-world setting for the Hyundai Veloster N TC 
is 10, however an option of 14 is available to make the steering feel 
more like what is found in the other vehicles in this class.
NET TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the front wheels, when viewed from above, 
relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive values for this 
setting are Toe-In, negative values are Toe-out. Toe-in is when the 
front of the wheels are closer to the centerline than the rear of the 
wheels, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-
out will decrease straight-line stability by increasing the slip angle 
on the inside tire when turning. This can aid in turn-in response but 
can make it easier to over-slip the tire and lose grip with too much 
steering angle. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in responsiveness 
but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
ABS SETTING
The Anti-Lock Brake System (ABS) can be changed to one of 
five settings to suit different situations. Setting 1 is used for Dry 
conditions, Setting 2 is for Damp conditions, and Setting 3 is for Wet 
conditions. Setting 4 is useful for Safety Car situations and Setting 5 
is for emergencies and puts the system into “Limp” mode. This value 
can be adjusted via the F8 Black Box.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for
a given situation.
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR BRAKE VALVE
The Rear Brake Valve setting controls the amount of braking 
pressure that goes to the rear wheels, allowing rear brake 
adjustment without altering the amount of pressure that goes
to the front wheels. Increasing the Rear Brake Valve value will 
generate more brake line pressure to the rear wheels, producing 
a similar effect to reducing front brake bias, without reducing the 
braking force to the front wheels. Reducing the Rear Brake Valve 
setting will reduce brake pressure to the rear wheels, similar to 
shifting the brake bias forward.
LAUNCH RPM LIMIT
For standing starts, the RPM limiter can be adjusted up or down to 
optimize launch for different grip levels. Higher limits can prevent the 
engine from bogging down, but can spin the front tires more easily.
CENTER SPLITTER HEIGHT
The front splitter ground clearance is shown in the garage. This is 
not directly adjustable but will change based on other settings in the 
garage. There are no tech-inspection checks on this value and it only 
serves as a reference for the car’s attitude under static conditions.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis.
Since these values are measured to a specific reference
point on the car, these values may not necessarily reflect the 
vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value
for the height of the car off of the race track at static values.
Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they 
can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as 
well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle. 
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner
weight by changing the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the
spring, adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride
height at that corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, 
reducing height and weight on a given corner. These should be 
adjusted in pairs (left and right together, for example) or with all 
four spring preload adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight 
changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness.
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however, they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. The drawbacks of stiffer springs will become 
more pronounced on rougher tracks where softer springs will 
result in increased overall performance. Corner spring changes will 
influence both roll and pitch control of the platform and ARB changes 
should be considered when altering corner spring stiffnesses in 
order to retain the same front to rear roll stiffness and handling 
balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness the ARB stiffness 
should be increased to retain the same roll stiffness as before the 
spring change. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the 
car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher Bump Stiffness values will slow suspension travel and 
increase wheel load during travel, but reduces how well the 
suspension can handle bumps. Reducing Bump Stiffness can help 
the suspension absorb bumps, but can reduce how responsive the 
chassis feels to the driver.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound 
values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the 
wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. Excessive rebound can also 
lead to unwanted oscillations caused by the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
This displays the weight on each wheel while sitting in the garage 
under static conditions. Useful for determining weight distribution 
during chassis adjustments.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the
chassis. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
but will increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight 
transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce 
overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the 
rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both 
mechanical and aerodynamic balance, and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner
weight by changing the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height 
and weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs 
(left and right together, for example) or with all four spring preload 
adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight changes while 
adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low loads and will produce better 
aerodynamic performance through improved platform control at the 
expense of mechanical grip. Spring stiffness should be matched to 
the needs of the racetrack and set such that the handling balance 
is consistent between high and low speed cornering. Increasing rear 
spring rate will allow for a lower static rear height which will reduce 
rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering while maintaining 
or even increasing the rear ride height in high speed cornering to 
shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and reduce understeer. 
Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior 
static ride heights after any spring rate change.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher Bump Stiffness values will slow suspension travel and 
increase wheel load during travel, but reduces how well the 
suspension can handle bumps. Reducing Bump Stiffness can help 
the suspension absorb bumps, but can reduce how responsive the 
chassis feels to the driver.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound 
values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the 
wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. Excessive rebound can also 
lead to unwanted oscillations caused by the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability. 
Since the rear wheels are not driven and are typically under less load 
than the fronts, the rear tires will usually see better performance 
with less camber than the front tires. More rear camber will increase 
cornering forces from the tires as increasing wear and heat buildup, 
but will decrease maximum braking capacity from the tires.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage.
ANTI-ROLL BAR DIAMETER
The Anti-Roll Bar Diameter setting controls the roll stiffness in the 
rear suspension. Larger rear Anti-Roll Bar sizes will increase roll 
stiffness and induce oversteer, while smaller Anti-Roll Bar sizes can 
reduce oversteer by softening the suspension’s roll stiffness.
ANTI-ROLL BAR ARM LENGTH
The length of the Anti-Roll Bar arms can be adjusted to fine tune the 
effective stiffness of the bar without changing the diameter. Longer 
arms (higher number values) will create a softer effective stiffness 
than shorter arms (lower number values).
NET TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the rear wheels, when viewed from above, 
relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive values for this 
setting are Toe-In, negative values are Toe-out. Toe-in is when 
the front of the wheels are closer to the centerline than the rear of 
the wheels, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the rear end, adding 
toe-out will decrease straight-line stability and can induce oversteer 
suddenly in some cases. Toe-in at the rear will reduce turn-in 
responsiveness but will increase straight-line stability.
REAR WING SETTING
The rear wing’s angle of attack can be changed via the Rear
Wing Setting. Higher angles will cause the wing to produce
more downforce and shift aero balance rearward, inducing 
understeer in mid- to high-speed corners, but will increase drag. 
Lower angles will reduce the amount of downforce generated
and shift aero balance forward, increasing oversteer in mid- and 
high-speed corners, but will also reduce the amount of drag 
produced by the wing. Angle settings are available from -4.0° to 
+4.0° , however it is important to note that all angles will produce 
downforce, and negative angles do not produce lift.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
The following iRacing setups are provided in the iRacing 
setups folder:
Baseline - 50L fuel with conservative handling characteristics for 
your first time in the car.
Baseline Wet - 50L fuel with setup adjustments and wet tires fitted 
for wet weather conditions.
Fixed - 25L fuel for the 15 minute official fixed sprint series.
Fixed Nordschleife - 38L fuel for the longer fixed race 
at Nürburgring.
Medium Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for a variety of tracks.
Low Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for tracks like Daytona or Le Mans 
where minimizing drag is important.
High Downforce - 45L fuel for the half hour official series with 
downforce levels appropriate for tighter, twisty tracks where high 
levels of downforce (and possibly less rotation) is preferred.
Endurance - Full fuel for long endurance races with a medium 
downforce trim.
BRAKE SYSTEM SETTINGS
AERODYNAMIC ADJUSTMENTS
This car has a Brake Bias Adjuster to change the pressure balance 
between the front and rear brake lines.
The Hyundai Veloster N TCR also has a Rear Brake Pressure Limiter 
(Proportioning Valve), which reduces the amount of pressure going 
to the rear brakes (it has no effect on front line pressure) for a given 
pedal force input. It also allows the effective brake bias (% Front 
line pressure) to move forward in heavy braking conditions. Since 
front wheel drive cars do not have much static load on the rear 
tires, hard braking can result in lightly-loaded rear tires. A properly 
adjusted Proportioning Valve can keep the rear tires from locking 
in these situations.
The easiest way to make changes to the handling is to adjust the 
rear wing setting. A higher angle (more positive) wing setting is a 
more rearward aero balance (understeer) as well as more drag. A 
wing setting of -2 is a reasonable place to start if you are unsure of 
a reasonable wing trim for any given track. You may find you want 
more rotation (less wing) or less rotation (more wing) from there.
 Higher Wing (More Positive) = Less Rotation / More 
 Downforce and Drag
 Lower Wing (More Negative) = More Rotation / Less 
 Downforce and Drag
Higher Prop Valve settings allow more rear brake line pressure and 
stopping power but risk locking the rear brakes. Each Prop Valve 
adjustment down from the maximum increases the effective % Front 
line pressure by about 1%. The lowest Prop Valve setting limits rear 
brake line pressure the most, this forces the front brakes to do the 
most work and will increase stopping distances.
Set your Brake Bias Adjuster first and tune it for low and medium 
pedal force situations, then set the Proportioning Valve next as a 
way to fine-tune high pedal force braking.
Lower Brake Valve Setting = Higher effective brake bias during 
heavy brake situations.
Higher Brake Valve Setting = Lower effective brake bias during 
heavy brake situations.
If you find you wish to change the aero balance of the car without 
changing your downforce trim (wing setting), you can adjust the 
rake of the vehicle with the spring perch adjustments on each 
corner of the car. More rake (higher rear, lower front) will move aero 
balance forward (more rotation) and less rake (lower rear, higher 
front) will more aero balance rearward (less rotation). It is worth 
noting that keeping the splitter (front) height low is important for 
making downforce and aero efficiency. It is recommended that when 
adjusting rake you adjust rear heights while keeping front heights at 
minimum for all but the most extreme of situations.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TC | USER MANUAL
HYUNDAI VELOSTER N TCR | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
It is also possible to affect the dynamic aero balance with front and 
rear spring selection. A softer spring at front or rear will allow more 
deflection under load which will let that end of the car travel more 
(lower ride heights) while a stiffer spring will hold up that end of the 
car more under the same load. You can affect the rake of the car 
while on track with these adjustments.
More Rake (Higher Rear vs Front) = More Rotation
Less Rake (Lower Rear vs Front) = Less Rotation
If you would like to change the mechanical balance without changing 
the aero balance the front and rear ARBs and ARB arms may be 
adjusted.
Bigger Front ARB/Shorter ARB Arms = Less rotation
Smaller Front ARB/Longer ARB Arms = More rotation
Bigger Rear ARB/Shorter ARB Arms = More rotation
Smaller Rear ARB/Longer ARB Arms = Less rotation
REAR ALIGNMENT
It is expected you may wish to run some amount of rear toe out to 
increase rotation and drive off in this front wheel drive car. More toe 
out (negative) will result in more rotation on entry and mid corner. 
You may find less toe out (more positive) may suit your driving style 
or keep rotation more consistent for your driving, setup, or track 
conditions. Some experimentation is encouraged here! This can be 
a powerful adjustment!