--- PAGE 1 ---

LATE MODEL STOCK
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
 Rear » 16
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
Chassis » 10
Tires » 9 
 Front » 10
 Front ARB » 11
 Rear Corners » 14
 Front Corners » 12 
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Used in series like the CARS Late Model Stock Tour and throughout the Carolinas, the Late Model Stock 
Car is an important step in the career of many of stock car racing’s top stars. The names that have 
progressed through the series on the way to national-level glory range from current NASCAR Xfinity 
Series front-runners like Josh Berry, Sam Mayer, and Myatt Snider to NASCAR Craftsman Truck Series 
drivers like Hailie Deegan and Christian Eckes and even 2023 NASCAR Cup Series rookie Ty Gibbs.
The Late Model Stock Car is powered by a 350 cubic inch engine—both crate and custom engines are 
available—that produces well over 400 horsepower. Fiberglass body panels help keep the car on the 
lighter side, but are still durable enough to take on the full-contact nature of short track racing. LMSC 
racing puts on some of the best shows in short track racing anywhere it goes, and the CARS Tour takes 
them to many of iRacing’s most popular short tracks, including Southern National Motorsports Park, 
Hickory Motor Speedway, Langley Speedway, South Boston Speedway, and North Wilkesboro Speedway.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
LATE MODEL STOCK | TECH SPECS
INDEPENDENT COILOVER FRONT 
SUSPENSION, LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM 
REAR SUSPENSION WITH COILOVERS
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED STEEL 
BLOCK CRATE V8
LENGTH
5054 mm
199 in
WIDTH
1638 mm
64.5 in
WHEELBASE
2667 mm
105 in
DRY WEIGHT
6173 kg
2800 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
6834 kg
3100 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
5.7 Liters
350 cid
TORQUE
450 lb-ft
610 Nm
POWER
500 bhp
373 kW
RPM LIMIT
7,200
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. 
While applying the throttle, slowly release the clutch and the car 
will begin rolling. Once the car is moving, the clutch is no longer 
needed to shift gears, with upshifting requiring a quick lift off the 
LATE MODEL STOCK | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
throttle and downshifting requiring a small blip of throttle. Since 
the car lacks a tachometer display, it’s important for the driver 
to become accustomed to how the engine sounds and shift just 
prior to the rev limiter engaging.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
LATE MODEL STOCK | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The iRacing Late Model Stock Car features only two gauges to display vital engine information to the driver. Situated behind 
the steering wheel, these gauges are configured to change from a white illumination to a flashing red when the indicated 
value reaches a level that could lead to an engine failure.
OIL PRESSURE
The left gauge displays the engine oil pressure in Pounds per Square 
Inch. This gauge does not change units when the garage is set to 
Metric.
WATER TEMP
The right gauge displays the engine cooling water temperature in 
Degrees Fahrenheit. This gauge does not change units when the 
garage is set to Metric.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of 
the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. 
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat 
buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures. Excessively low cold pressures 
at high-speed tracks can lead to a lack of traction and excessive 
tire heat. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should 
build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling 
balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be 
adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up 
to operating temperature.
TIRES
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
while on track. These values are measured in three zones across 
the tread of the tire. Ideally, the temperature spread across a tire 
will reflect the amount of camber (for ovals, the left side of the tire 
should always read hotter) and should never read even across the 
tire tread. Tracks with longer straights should read hotter on the left-
side edges because of the extra time spent on the tire edges, while 
tracks with shorter straights will read more even across the tread.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, but should never be prioritized over tire temperatures 
when analyzing handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BALLAST FORWARD
In order to meet minimum legal competition weights, lead blocks are 
installed within the chassis frame rails that can be moved to various 
locations in the car. This adjustment directly affects the Nose Weight 
setting (see below) and will have a large effect on the car’s overall 
handling balance, especially at high-speeds on larger tracks.
NOSE WEIGHT
The Nose Weight setting shows the percentage of the car’s 
weight is situated over the front axle, with higher values indicating 
more weight is on the front axle relative to the rear axle. As Nose 
Weight increases and weight is moved forward the car will tend to 
understeer while cornering and lose front-end grip, while lower 
Nose Weight values will induce oversteer and can cause a loss in 
rear-end grip. At high speed tracks this value is used to balance 
overall aerodynamic balance, so a change in chassis rake may 
require an adjustment in the car’s nose weight to re-balance the 
chassis with the aero. This value can be adjusted directly via the 
Ballast Forward option, but will also be affected by the amount 
of fuel in the car. It is very important to be aware of Nose Weight 
changes when adding or removing fuel to avoid a handling issue 
due to changing Nose Weight.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross Weight is the percentage of the car’s total weight that is 
situated on the Left-Rear and Right-Front wheels. Higher values will 
place more weight on these wheels and induce understeer while 
cornering, lower values will shift weight to the Left-Front/Right-Rear 
wheels and induce oversteer. Cross Weight is used for a multitude 
of reasons, most important being a way to control the handling in 
various sections of the corner. This value should be set initially to 
match track characteristics, with higher values being used for low-
grip track surfaces or tracks with lower banking. This will increase 
the weight on the Left-Rear tire and increase on-throttle traction, 
very helpful on this type of track. For tracks that are high banked 
or have a high-grip surface this extra traction isn’t necessary, so 
reducing the crossweight will keep the car free through the center of 
the corner without scrubbing speed.
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio will alter how “fast” the steering feels to the 
driver. This ratio is a representation of how much movement is 
applied to the steering box input shaft to produce a standard amount 
of movement on the steering box output shaft. For example, a “10:1” 
can be thought of as requiring 10° of steering input from the driver 
to produce 1° of steering output from the steering box. Increasing 
the value to 14:1 would require 14° of steering input to get the same 
output, and this would feel as if the steering has become slower and 
less responsive. Conversely, reducing the ratio will make the steering 
feel faster and more darty for the driver. This is purely a driver 
preference setting and has no effect on the rest of the chassis setup 
or its handling characteristics.
STEERING OFFSET
Due to the asymmetric nature of the Late Model Stock Car, the 
steering can often have a “pull” to the left on the straights. To 
counter this effect and re-center the steering wheel, an offset can 
be applied in the garage. Positive values will rotate the steering 
wheel to the right and negative values will rotate the steering wheel 
to the left. This offset will not affect the steering or the chassis 
in any way other than the steering wheel’s orientation at neutral 
steering input.
BRAKE BALANCE BAR
The Brake Balance Bar setting controls the Brake Bias value, or the 
amount of braking force split between the front and rear braking 
systems. The value is a percentage of front braking force, and values 
over 50% and higher represent more pressure being sent to the front 
brakes. Lower values will shift the pressure towards the rear, with 
values under 50% sending more to the rear brakes than the front. 
This can be a helpful tool in preventing wheel lockups under heavy 
braking by shifting pressure away from the locking axle, but can also 
be used as a way to slightly alter the car’s handling under heavy 
braking. Generally, a higher Brake Bias value will induce understeer 
while braking while lower values will induce oversteer while braking.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT ARB
TAPE CONFIGURATION
The front radiator grille can be set to either “Race”, an open 
configuration, or “Qual”, where tape is applied over the grille opening 
to reduce drag and increase overall downforce. The Qual setting will 
close the radiator inlet completely, leading to the engine overheating 
very quickly, but is very good for qualifying runs where the car is on 
track for only a handful of laps. While both settings are available for 
most sessions, the Qual setting is locked out for Race sessions.
ARB DIAMETER
The front Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or “sway” bar) diameter will alter the 
front suspension’s roll stiffness and influence the chassis’ handling 
and responsiveness. Larger diameters will increase the roll stiffness 
and reduce body roll, but can induce understeer and potentially hurt 
front tire life. Smaller diameter ARB settings will reduce roll stiffness 
and increase body roll, but are better on the front tires and can 
make them last longer. Generally, the smallest ARB diameter that 
still keeps the front of the car flat to the race track will yield the 
best results.
ARB ARM END
The ARB Arm End setting changes the length of the left side ARB 
linkage. This can be used to either pre-load the ARB (see below) or 
cause a delay in the ARB’s engagement. Negative values will pre-
load the ARB and apply a static load to the bar when the car is sitting 
still, which will pull the Left-Front of the chassis down and raise the 
Right-Front of the chassis. Positive values will apply a pre-load in the 
other direction, pulling the Right-Front down and the Left-Front up.
ATTACH LEFT SIDE
The Attach Left Side setting controls whether the left side of the 
ARB assembly is connected directly to the suspension. Checking 
this box will attach a solid linkage between the left-side ARB arm 
and the Left-Front suspension, unchecking this box will allow the 
bar to move independently of the suspension and preventing 
positive pre-load values (commonly known as a “slapper”-type 
sway bar). See the ARB Arm End section for more on the effects of 
a detached ARB linkage and how it can be used. If the Attach Left 
Side setting is left unchecked, positive preload values will cause 
the bar to delay engagement until the front of the car drops from 
aerodynamic and track loads. This is very helpful when the car is 
set up with ride heights above where the car will be run on-track, 
since it prevents vertical travel from loading the ARB and causing the 
bar to try and lift the nose back up on the straights when cornering 
loads are removed.
PRELOAD
ARB Preload is a static twisting force applied to the front ARB when 
the car is stationary. Bar Preload’s effect is explained in the ARB 
Arm End setting, but this value is a numerical representation of the 
amount of load the bar is seeing while in the garage. Tech inspection 
limits exist on the maximum or minimum preload that can be applied 
to the bar and will indicate when the bar is in an illegal configuration.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The Corner Weight displays the weight situated on each wheel 
when the car is stopped and in the garage. These values are 
crucial in determining how the car will handle as well as providing 
insight on which adjustments could be needed to alleviate handling 
issues. Corner Weights are not directly adjustable, but instead 
are dependent on almost every other option in the garage so it 
is very important to pay attention to these values when making 
adjustments. Changing a component without ensuring the weights 
return to what they were prior to the adjustment can introduce 
unexpected or undesired handling effects.
RIDE HEIGHT
The Ride Height values are a measurement from the ground to a 
specific point on the chassis. On the front end of the Late Model 
Stock these values measure to the lower surface on the front end 
of the chassis’ lower door frame rails, just behind the front wheels. 
Since various parts of the chassis extend below these points, the 
Ride Height values are not a representation of the car’s ground 
clearance, but instead are to be used as a reference height for 
setup changes.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
The upper spring perches can be moved up or down to adjust the 
suspension spring preloads, with their position represented as the 
Spring Perch Offset value in the garage. Lower values will move 
the perch down and place more load on the spring, which raises 
the ride height on that corner of the car and increases the corner 
weight. When adjusted individually these can be used to fine-tune 
the weight of a given corner, but when adjusted equally on multiple 
corners this will shift weight around the car without significantly 
altering the ride heights.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness value of the suspension’s coil spring 
shown in a force-per-displacement value, either pounds-per-inch 
(lb/in) or Newtons-per-millimeter (N/mm). Higher values are stiffer 
springs which will resist compression more as loads increase, 
resulting in a more consistent aerodynamic platform but reduced 
mechanical grip. On the front of the Late Model Stock Car, the 
front springs are not always intended to be used as the primary 
load-carrying springs and should be kept fairly soft in order to 
drop the nose of the car when on the track. Despite this, altering 
the front Spring Rate can be used to fine-tune how aggressively 
the bumpstops are engaged, with stiffer springs resulting in a 
more gradual transition onto the bumpstops as the suspension 
compresses. Also, tracks with high vertical loads can benefit from 
stiffer front spring rates, especially on the Right-Front corner.
BUMPSTOP
The Bumpstops are secondary front springs installed on the shock 
shaft that are active only when the front shocks have compressed 
far enough that the shock body and the bumpstop are in contact. 
On the iRacing Late Model Stock Car, the bumpstops are linear-rate 
bump springs, much like the main springs. These bump springs 
typically carry the high loads seen while the car is on the track 
and are a much higher spring rate due to the low amount of travel 
available. Higher bumpstop spring rate values will maintain a more 
consistent front end height above the track through changing loads, 
but can reduce mechanical grip due to excessive bouncing of the 
front tires. Softer bumpstop spring rates will increase mechanical 
grip, but may allow too much vertical front end movement and risk 
the chassis striking the track surface and unloading the front tires.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
PACKER
Packers are small shims installed on top of the Bumpstops to reduce 
the gap between the bumpstop and the bottom of the shock body. 
These can be added or removed to fine-tune when the bumpstops 
engage, or can be used to change the front end ride heights when 
the car is in the corners. Adding packers will engage the bumpstops 
earlier in travel and raise the nose of the car, while removing packers 
will lower the nose. Adding more packers to one front corner and 
not the other corner (“splitting” the packers) can be used to alter 
dynamic loads and front ARB loads through the corner. If packers 
are added to the Right-Front corner, weight will shift to that corner 
sooner on corner entry and stabilize the car. However, front bar 
load will increase and may cause the left-front to run higher down 
the straights. Conversely, adding packers to the Left-Front only can 
loosen the car on corner entry and can reduce bar load.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The front Bump Stiffness setting changes how stiff the front shock 
is in compression. Higher click values produce a stiffer shock, lower 
values produce a softer shock. This setting only affects the chassis 
handling during suspension travel and not through the center of the 
corner when the car has settled into the corner. Increasing the front 
Bump Stiffness setting will tighten the car under braking and on 
corner entry, while decreasing the front Bump Stiffness will loosen 
the car in these situations.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The front Rebound Stiffness setting changes how stiff the front 
shocks are in rebound, or when the suspension is extending. This 
is most commonly seen on throttle application and corner exit, 
but can also occur in the corners over bumps. Increasing the front 
rebound setting will hold the front of the car down better than lower 
settings, but can promote understeer on corner exit. Also, if a track 
is very bumpy a higher rebound setting can reduce front grip by 
not allowing the suspension to move and keep the tire in contact 
with the track. Adjusted individually, front rebound can also alter 
the chassis balance on corner exit: Increasing Left-Front rebound 
will increase traction and understeer, while increasing Right-Front 
rebound will free up the chassis on corner exit.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so 
it is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, all four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward 
(negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel 
but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as adding 
straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front than on 
the right-front will cause the car to pull harder to the left and enter 
the corner more aggressively.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. Front toe-in 
effects must be considered for each wheel individually as well as 
an overall toe setting for the front wheels together by adding the 
values together.
If the net toe-in setting results in a toe-in setting that is negative, 
the wheels are aligned to point away from each other (toe-out). 
This will result in a more aggressive turn-in response, but it can 
cause the front tires to heat up faster and potentially overheat if too 
much front toe-out is used, as well as causing the car to be unstable 
in a straight line for high toe-out values. If the net setting is positive, 
the wheels are aligned to point towards each other (toe-in). This will 
reduce heat buildup in the front tires, but can stabilize the car in 
a straight line.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The Corner Weight displays the weight situated on each wheel 
when the car is stopped and in the garage. These values are 
crucial in determining how the car will handle as well as providing 
insight on which adjustments could be needed to alleviate handling 
issues. Corner Weights are not directly adjustable, but instead 
are dependent on almost every other option in the garage so it 
is very important to pay attention to these values when making 
adjustments. Changing a component without ensuring the weights 
return to what they were prior to the adjustment can introduce 
unexpected or undesired handling effects.
RIDE HEIGHT
The Ride Height values are a measurement from the ground to a 
specific point on the chassis. On the rear end of the Late Model 
Stock these values measure to the lower surface on the rear end 
of the chassis’ lower door frame rails, just ahead of the rear wheels. 
Since various parts of the chassis extend below these points, the 
Ride Height values are not a representation of the car’s ground 
clearance, but instead are to be used as a reference height for 
setup changes.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
The upper spring perches can be moved up or down to adjust the 
suspension spring preloads, with their position represented as the 
Spring Perch Offset value in the garage. Lower values will move 
the perch down and place more load on the spring, which raises 
the ride height on that corner of the car and increases the corner 
weight. When adjusted individually these can be used to fine-tune 
the weight of a given corner, but when adjusted equally on multiple 
corners this will shift weight around the car without significantly 
altering the ride heights.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness value of the suspension’s coil spring 
shown in a force-per-displacement value, either pounds-per-inch 
(lb/in) or Newtons-per-millimeter (N/mm). Higher values are stiffer 
springs which will resist compression more as loads increase, 
resulting in a more consistent aerodynamic platform but reduced 
mechanical grip. Generally the Right-Rear spring will be run stiffer 
than the Left-Rear to compensate for the lack of a rear ARB. A softer 
Left-Rear spring rate will also help to lower the Left-Front of the 
car, reducing the need for large diameter front ARB and/or high 
front bar loads
BUMP STIFFNESS
The rear Bump Stiffness setting changes how stiff the rear shock is 
in compression. Higher click values produce a stiffer shock, lower 
values produce a softer shock. This setting only affects the chassis 
handling during suspension travel and not through the center of the 
corner when the car has settled into the corner. Increasing the rear 
Bump Stiffness setting will tighten the car under acceleration and on 
corner exit, while decreasing the rear Bump Stiffness will loosen the 
car in these situations.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rear Rebound Stiffness setting changes how stiff the rear 
shocks are in rebound, or when the suspension is extending. This 
is most commonly seen when braking and during corner entry, but 
can also occur in the corners over large bumps. Increasing the rear 
rebound setting will hold the rear of the car in place better than 
lower settings, but can promote oversteer on corner entry if the 
settings are too high. Also, if a track is very bumpy a higher rebound 
setting can reduce rear grip by not allowing the suspension to move 
and keep the tire in contact with the track. Adjusted individually, 
rear rebound can also alter the chassis balance on corner entry: 
Increasing Right-Rear rebound will increase understeer, while 
increasing Left-Rear rebound will free up the chassis on corner entry

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The Track Bar is a solid steel rod mounted to the rear axle housing 
on the left side and to the chassis frame on the right side to hold 
the rear axle assembly in place. The track bar’s left- and right-
side mounts can be raised or lowered to alter both the dynamic 
loading on the rear tires as well as change the rear suspension’s 
roll stiffness, with both effects having a large effect on handling 
characteristics. Raising the overall height of the track bar (equal 
adjustment on both ends of the bar in the same direction, e.g. 1” 
up on both ends) will increase the roll stiffness of the rear 
suspension and free up the chassis through all phases of cornering. 
Lowering the track bar on both ends will reduce the rear roll 
stiffness and tighten the chassis while cornering. Since this type 
of adjustment alters rear roll stiffness it can have a large effect on 
the chassis’s roll attitude, so it’s important to keep this in mind while 
making adjustments.
Adjusting the two ends individually will shift loads from one rear 
tire to the other as the chassis loads. Raising one end of the track 
bar will essentially reduce the grip on its associated tire and affect 
handling at specific portions of the corner. Raising the right-side 
track bar mount will reduce Right-Rear grip, freeing up the chassis 
during the transition from center to corner exit, and is a good 
adjustment for a “tight-center, loose-off” condition. Raising the left-
side track bar mount will help the car rotate into the center of the 
corner. Conversely, lowering one of the mounts will do the opposite 
and increase grip on its associated tire.
The iRacing Late Model Stock is the first oval car to feature a “live” 
track bar mount in the garage. Previous cars display fixed track bar 
mount heights based on tech inspection heights, which causes the 
right-side track bar mount to load into the world differently based on 
where the Right-Rear height is set. On the Late Model Stock Car, the 
track bar mount values represent where the track bar will be when 
the car is loaded into the world and are linked directly to Right-Rear 
Ride Height, changing in the garage as adjustments are made to 
other chassis settings. In order to prevent unintentional changes 
during adjustment, it is extremely important to pay attention to the 
Track Bar mount heights and reset them as necessary!
TRUCK ARM MOUNT
The rear axle is held in place longitudinally with two truck arms, 
mounted to the bottom of the chassis underneath the driver 
compartment. The forward mounts can be adjusted up and down, 
resulting in various anti-squat and rear-steer configurations. 
Higher truck arm mounts will reduce rear end grip, increase rear 
steer, add anti-squat, and reduce wheel hop under heavy braking. 
Lower truck arm mounts will increase rear end bite, decrease rear 
steer, reduce anti-squat, and increase the chances of wheel hop 
under heavy braking.
TRUCK ARM PRELOAD
Due to the truck arm mounting design on the rear axle, most chassis 
adjustments will result in the truck arms applying a torque to the rear 
axle tube. This preload has an extremely small effect on the chassis 
balance, but can be removed to eliminate any potential issues. It is 
good practice to reset this value to as close to zero as possible after 
making adjustments.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
LATE MODEL STOCK | USER MANUAL
LATE MODEL STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL FILL TO
The Fuel Fill To setting alters the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when 
the car leaves the garage. Most races will be shorter than what a 
full tank is capable of, so it is important to get a good fuel reading in 
practice and carry no more fuel than is necessary for a race to keep 
overall vehicle weight low.
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed. Generally it is good to 
gear the car to hit the engine rev-limiter briefly before reaching the 
braking zone for a corner.