--- PAGE 1 ---

1
LEGENDS FORD COUPE
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7 
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 9
 Front » 10
Chassis » 10
Tires & Aero » 9 
 Front Corners » 11 
 Rear Corners » 12
 Rear » 13
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your iRacing membership, and we hope you enjoy the Legends Ford Coupe. From all 
of us at iRacing, we appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the 
ultimate sim racing experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel 
of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your continued support, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT 
FRONT, LIVE AXLE 3-LINK REAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED, 
WATER COOLED, IN-LINE 3-CYLINDER
LENGTH
3158mm
124in
WIDTH
1524mm
60in
WHEELBASE
1854mm
73in
DRY WEIGHT
476kg
1050lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
571kg
1260lbs
RPM LIMIT
12,100 
RPM
 
DISPLACEMENT
890cc
54CID
TORQUE
76lb-ft
100Nm
POWER
130 bhp
97kW

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference. 
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary, but the clutch isn’t required once the vehicle 
is in motion for upshifts or downshifts. To upshift, simply let off 
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
the throttle and select the next higher gear. To downshift, give the 
throttle a blip while selecting the next lower gear. If you downshift 
too early, or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and 
engine speed will be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear 
and a possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. 
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will 
be automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of 
the other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to 
Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that 
fits your needs. If you would like to customize the setup, simply 
make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and 
click apply. If you would like to save your setup for future use click 
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | INTRODUCTION
“Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To access all 
of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side 
of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver 
or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of 
the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage 
as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
TACHOMETER BAR
Displays Engine RPM in a graphical segmented bar across 
the top of the display
RPM
Engine RPM
ECT
Displays the temperature, in °F or °C, of the engine cooling water
The display also features shift lights across the top, which will 
light up from left (green) to right (red) as RPM increases. When the 
optimum shift RPM is reached, a red LED will illuminate in the upper 
right corner of the display, shown below.
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
A single-page AIM digital display conveys information to the driver in an easy-to-read format:
SPD
Car speed, in mph or kph
GEAR
Currently selected transmission gear

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. 
Higher pressures will reduce heat buildup, but will provide better 
grip with higher loads and higher speeds. Lower pressures will 
increase heat buildup, but will provide better grip at lower loads 
and lower speeds. Cold pressures should be set to track 
characteristics for optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. On left-turn ovals, the right-front tire should always 
see the highest buildup on a balanced car, while the left sides should 
be roughly the same, but it is important to monitor the hot pressures 
after a run and adjust accordingly. Ideally, the difference in hot 
pressures on one side of the car should be roughly equal to the 
difference between cold pressures after a longer run.
TIRE PAGE
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR TIRES)
LAST TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are 
useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the 
Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel 
alignment while on track. These values are measured in three zones 
across the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.
STAGGER
Stagger is the difference in circumference between the left- and 
right-side tires. For oval tracks, Stagger is necessary due to the 
differences in turning radii between the two tires and should always 
be greater than zero. Tracks with flatter turns or a tighter turn 
radius will need more stagger, while tracks with more banking and/
or longer, wider turns will need less stagger. For road courses, keep 
Stagger at zero.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT END
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism off-
center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to compensate 
for chassis settings which place the wheel off center and is primarily 
a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force 
to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and track 
conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a 
given situation.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Shock Collar Offsets. For 
ovals, Crossweight is typically set a few percent higher or lower than 
50% depending on the track’s characteristics. For smaller ovals with 
tighter turns, a lower crossweight may be desired to help the car 
rotate through the corner. For higher speeds and larger turns, higher 
crossweight may be desired to aid in drive-off and maintain stability 
through the corner. For Road Courses, having the Crossweight right 
around 50% is usually the best place to start.
SCREEN COLOR
A choice of 7 different colors are available for the digital dash 
background: White, Cyan, Blue, Green, Yellow, Red and Purple. This 
option is adjustable from within the car as well as the garage.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Front 
heights are measured at the front of the lowest part of the frame 
just behind the front wheels. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
mechanical grip as well as how much weight transfer occurs during 
braking and cornering.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Legend Car shocks feature a threaded collar as the upper spring 
perch mount. This collar is used to adjust ride height and corner 
weight, and adjusting this setting applies a preload to the spring 
under static conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on 
the spring, adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height 
at that corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing 
height and weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in 
pairs (left and right, for example) or in conjunction with all four spring 
perch adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight changes while 
adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, but may cause the chassis to move around 
too much, hurting performance.
SHOCK BUILD
The Legend Car uses sealed, non-adjustable shocks. However, 
the suspension’s damping behavior can be altered with different 
shock builds. Shocks are represented by two numbers representing 
the relative Compression and Rebound values, with higher numbers 
representing more force for that value. For example, the “4/2” and 
“4/5” shock both have the same Compression, but the “4/5” shock 
will have more Rebound. Stiffer shocks (higher values) will control 
the chassis’s attitude better, producing a more responsive feel, 
but could hurt mechanical grip over rough surfaces. Softer shocks 
will be more compliant over bumps but could make the chassis 
feel unresponsive.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber places the top of the wheel closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
places the top of the tire farther out than the bottom. Greater 
camber angles will increase the cornering force generated by the 
tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have 
under braking. For ovals, set the left side positive and the right 
side negative. For road courses, all four wheels should be set with 
negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward 
(negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel 
but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as adding 
straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front will cause 
the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals. 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. More net toe-
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. 
Rear heights are measured at the rear of the lowest part of the 
frame just in front of the rear wheels. Adjusting Ride Heights is key 
for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
mechanical grip as well as how much weight transfer occurs during 
braking and cornering.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Legend Car shocks feature a threaded collar as the upper spring 
perch mount. This collar is used to adjust ride height and corner 
weight, and adjusting this setting applies a preload to the spring 
under static conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload 
on the spring, adding weight to that corner and increasing the 
ride height at that corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, 
reducing height and weight on a given corner. These should be 
adjusted in pairs (left and right, for example) or in conjunction with 
all four spring perch adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight 
changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, may cause the chassis to move around 
too much, hurting performance
SHOCK BUILD
The same sealed shocks used on the front of the car are also 
used at the rear. Shocks are represented by two numbers 
representing the relative Compression and Rebound values, with 
higher numbers representing more force for that value. For example, 
the “4/2” and “4/5” shock both have the same Compression, but 
the “4/5” shock will have more Rebound. Stiffer shocks (higher 
values) will control the chassis’s attitude better, producing a more 
responsive feel, but could hurt mechanical grip over rough surfaces. 
Softer shocks will be more compliant over bumps but could make 
the chassis feel unresponsive.
out will destabilize the car in a straight line and help with turn-in but 
increases slip angle on the front wheels and can risk over-slipping 
the front tires at high values, which can result in sudden understeer 
when cornering.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | USER MANUAL
LEGENDS FORD COUPE | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL FILL TO
This selects the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage.
REAR END RATIO 
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed. Since Legend Cars 
feature a 5-speed transmission without changeable ratios, it’s 
important to find the rear-end gear that works the best for each 
track. Because the transmission ratios are locked, not all ovals will 
see the best performance in 5th gear. Some will see lower lap times 
while running 4th gear with a lower Rear End ratio, so it’s important 
to experiment with all possibilities.