--- PAGE 1 ---

1
LIGIER JS P320
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Tire Data » 10
 Aero Spec » 11
Tires & Aero » 10
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
 Aero Calculator » 12
Chassis » 13
 Front » 13
 Brakes / In-Car / Misc » 14
 Front Corners » 15
 Rear Corners » 17
 Rear » 18
Dampers » 19
Setup Tips » 20
SETUP TIPS
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dashboard » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Ligier’s latest design to compete under global LMP3 regulations, the Ligier JS P320 launched in the 
summer of 2019. The JS P320 succeeded the JS P3 that had been running since 2015, scoring hundreds 
of wins and multiple championships across global and international series. It represented major changes 
from its predecessor in bodywork and suspension, and added traction control and a new, more powerful 
Nissan V8 engine as part of a new generation of LMP3 regulations.
In its first two seasons as a part of the top-level IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship, Ligier 
entries dominated the LMP3 class. Riley Motorsports finished first and third in the standings in 2021, 
led by driver’s champion Gar Robinson, while the CORE Autosport duo of Colin Braun and Jon Bennett 
finished second in that inaugural season before winning the title in 2022. For 2024 and beyond, the JS 
P320 and all other LMP3s will compete exclusively in the IMSA VP Racing SportsCar Challenge, where it 
will be the faster car in multi-class racing exclusively alongside GT4 cars.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
LIGIER JS P320 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH PUSHROD-
ACTUATED INBOARD SPRINGS
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
NISSAN V8
LENGTH
4605 mm
181 in
WIDTH
1900 mm
75 in
DISPLACEMENT
5.6 Liters
341 CID
TORQUE
402 lb-ft
545 Nm
POWER
460 bhp
343 kW
WHEELBASE
2860 mm
112 in
DRY WEIGHT
950 kg
2094 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1115 kg
2458 lbs
RPM LIMIT
7000

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias and Traction Control settings. While this is not mandatory, this 
will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and traction 
control systems to suit your driving style and track conditions while 
out on track.
LIGIER JS P320 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pressing the 
clutch and pulling the “upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting 
the accelerator pedal while releasing the clutch. The Ligier JS P320 
does not require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction. 
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated, around 6600rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to
become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have 
provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced by 
these cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper 
racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a 
number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in 
the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
 
LIGIER JS P320 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | DASH PAGES
Dash Page Layout
Last The previously completed lap time is shown in the upper left of the display in blue
Best The session’s best lap is shown in the upper right of the display in pink
Gear Indicator The currently-selected gear is located in the middle of the display
RPM Engine RPM is located just beneath the gear indicator
Tyre Press
Live pressures are shown in the center of the display in units based on what is selected in the garage.
Imperial units will display Pounds-per-square-Inch and Metric units will display Bar.
Fuel Used
How much fuel that has been used since leaving pit road is shown on the left side of the display. Imperial units 
will show US Gallons and Metric units will show Liters
Fuel Lap
After completing each lap the amount of fuel that was used in the previous lap will be displayed beneath the 
Fuel Used value in US Gallons or Liters
DIFF
A live split time is shown on the right side of the display underneath the Best Lap display. This will compare 
the current lap against the Best lap, displaying a faster lap in green and a slower lap in red
Speed
The vehicle’s speed is shown on the right side of the display in Miles-per-Hour for Imperial units and 
Kilometers-per-Hour for Metric units
OIL P
The engine oil system pressure is shown on the bottom left in Pounds-per-square-inch for Imperial units and 
Bar for Metric units
TC
The currently-selected Traction Control setting is shown in a yellow box on the bottom of the display. This 
value will match the TC option in the F8 black box unless the setting is “0”, when this will display “OFF” to 
indicate the system is disabled
PPS The currently-selected throttle shape setting is shown on the bottom right of the display in a purple box
Water T
The engine’s cooling water temperature is displayed in the bottom right, in °F for Imperial and °C
for Metric units
DASH CONFIGURATION
The steering wheel’s integrated digital display shows all relevant information to the driver in an easy to 
read,single-page format.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | DASH PAGES
Pit Limiter Page Layout
Gear The Currently-selected gear will be shown in the upper left with a large number
Speed Current vehicle speed is shown in the upper right, in kph or mph
TC Map Currently selected Traction Control (TC) mapping
Fuel Used Volume of fuel used since the car was last pitted, in Liters or Gallons
Brake Balance Current Brake Balance setting
Pedal % Live throttle pedal position
Tyre Pressure Live tire pressures, in bar or PSI
Water T Engine cooling water temperature, in °C or °F
PPS Map Currently selected Throttle Shape setting
PIT LIMITER
SHIFT LIGHTS
The shift lights for the Ligier JS P320 are not tied directly to a specific RPM value, but are instead timed to begin illuminating based on the 
engine RPM acceleration to where the shift indication is shown at the optimum shift point based on how aggressively the car is accelerating.
RACELOGIC
To the left of the driver, mounted on top of the dash, is a Racelogic Split and Laptime display. During a lap this display will show the current 
split time relative to the session best lap time, as well as a graphical bar representing the displayed time difference. A positive split and a bar 
displayed to the right of center will indicate a lap slower than the reference, while a negative split and a bar to the left of center indicates a 
faster lap. When a lap is completed, the display will show the previously completed lap time as well as a split for the new lap.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
This sets the air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the 
world. Lower pressures will produce more mechanical grip with more 
rolling drag and heat buildup, while higher pressures will reduce 
heat buildup and rolling drag, but will also reduce the available grip. 
Generally, higher pressures will perform better at tracks with high 
speeds and high loads while slower tracks with tighter corners will 
see better performance out of lower tire pressures.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
The Last Hot Pressure displays the air pressure in the tire when 
the car is returned to the garage. The difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures can be used to identify how the car is progressing 
through a run in terms of balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a 
larger difference between Cold and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that 
are worked in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate 
to prevent a change in handling balance over the life of the tire, so 
Cold pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at 
similar pressures once up to operating temperature.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits or 
the driver has gotten out of the car. Wheel Loads and the amount of 
work a tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, 
and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done 
by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on 
track. These values are measured in three zones across the tread of 
the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer relative to the chassis centerline.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has
returned to the pits or the driver has gotten out of the car.
Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues with 
alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, and
can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze the 
car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
FRONT DIVE PLANES
The Front Dive Planes are aerodynamic surfaces attached to
the front fenders beneath the headlights. These can dramatically 
increase the downforce produced at the front of the car while 
shifting the aero balance forward but will increase drag slightly. 
Three variations are available: The High Downforce (HDF)
option will install a full dive plane and greatly increase downforce 
and drag. The Medium Downforce (MDF) will install a partial dive 
plane, reducing drag over the HDF option but with less downforce. 
The Low Downforce (LDF) option will remove the dive planes 
completely, an option for when top speed is absolutely crucial
for best performance.
DECK GURNEY SETTING
The Deck Gurney is a small flap installed at the rear of the car
to increase overall downforce. Using this aerodynamic device
will increase rear downforce as well as total downforce, but will
also increase drag.
AERO SETTINGS
REAR WING ANGLE
Changing the Rear Wing Angle will alter the angle of attack of the 
entire rear wing assembly. Higher angles will increase downforce
and shift aero balance rearward but will also increase drag. Lower 
angles will reduce drag and downforce while shifting aero balance 
forward. It’s very important to tune the Rear Wing angle to suit the 
track characteristics for optimum performance: Higher-speed tracks 
will usually benefit from the reduced drag of a lower wing angle 
while slower, twisty tracks will see better performance with a high 
wing angle and increased downforce.
REAR WING FLAP ANGLE
The rear wing features a second element that can be adjusted 
independently of the rear wing mainplane to fine-tune the downforce 
level at the rear of the car. Just like the Rear Wing Angle adjustment, 
higher angles will increase downforce and drag at the rear of the car 
and lower angles will reduce downforce and drag. This adjustment 
value is an offset to a reference angle and can be set to a negative 
angle value, with these negative values still producing downforce.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via 
telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the
“Front RH at Speed” setting.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via 
telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the
“Front RH at Speed” setting.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
DOWNFORCE BALANCE
Displayed in percent of Front downforce, this value shows
how much of the car’s total downforce is over the front axle.
A higher percentage value indicates an increase in front
downforce, increasing oversteer in mid- to high-speed corners.
A lower percentage value indicates an increase in rear downforce, 
increasing understeer in mid- to high-speed corners.
(L/D)
The “L/D” value is the ratio of Lift (downforce) to Drag.
This quantifies how efficiently the car’s bodywork is producing 
downforce in terms of how much drag is being produced as a
result. A higher L/D value means more downforce is being produced 
for each unit of drag, meaning the bodywork is being more efficient. 
Having a higher L/D value without sacrificing overall downforce will 
result in a faster, more efficient car. Optimum values for L/D can vary 
based on the aerodynamic configuration and track type.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
HEAVE SPRING
The front Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles 
external loads from purely vertical loads and doesn’t control loads 
that would induce chassis roll when cornering. Generally these loads 
are present for increasing downforce loads at higher speeds, dips 
and crests in the track, or under heavy braking. Higher rate values 
will stiffen the suspension in heave, which is good for controlling ride 
heights to maintain a good aerodynamic platform, but can produce 
a bouncing effect on rough surfaces. Lower rates will absorb bumps 
and loads easier, but will hurt the aerodynamic platform due to 
excessive chassis movement.
HEAVE PERCH OFFSET
The Heave Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the Heave 
Spring. This is one of two methods to adjust ride height through the 
front Heave element, with lower values preloading the spring more 
and raising front ride heights. Conversely, higher values will unload 
the spring and reduce front ride heights.
HEAVE SPRING DEFLECTION
Heave Spring Deflection represents the amount the Heave Spring 
is compressed under static conditions, essentially a display of 
the preload on the Heave Spring. This can change as a result of 
adjusting almost everything else on the chassis, so special attention 
should be paid to ensure the deflection, and thus the spring preload, 
remains the same after making setup changes. This setting is 
directly adjustable through the Heave Perch Offset setting, with 
higher deflection values indicating more static compression and 
higher spring preload.
HEAVE SLIDER DEFLECTION
The Heave Slider is a mechanism that keeps the Heave Spring 
assembly moving in a linear fashion without producing the forces 
that a damper would produce. The Slider Deflection is how far 
this slider mechanism is mounted on has compressed from fully 
extended. This has no influence on the chassis handling, but is a way 
to see how much travel is available before the slider bottoms out.
PUSHROD LENGTH ADJUSTMENT
This adjusts the length of both front suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great way 
to adjust front ride height without altering the preload on the Heave 
Spring or either front Torsion Bars.
ARB SIZE
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size alters the stiffness of the front 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the roll 
stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical understeer. This can also, in some cases, 
lead to a more responsive steering feel from the driver. Conversely, 
reducing the ARB size will soften the suspension in roll, increasing 
body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a 
less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle 
will increase.
ARB SETTING
The ARB Setting is a fine-tuning adjustment that alters the overall 
stiffness of the front ARB assembly. The Soft setting will provide 
the least roll resistance and induce some oversteer while cornering, 
while the Hard setting will provide the most roll resistance and shift 
the mechanical balance towards understeer. The Medium option falls 
between the two settings in both roll stiffness and handling balance.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | IN-CAR / SYSTEMS
BRAKES / IN-CAR / MISC
HEADLIGHT LED COLOR
This changes the color of the LED light strip around the outside
of the headlights, useful for identifying a specific car on-track
when multiple cars share the same livery. This has no effect on 
vehicle performance.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for
a given situation.
TRACTION CONTROL
This setting alters how much the Traction Control system will
cut engine torque to prevent wheelspin in heavy throttle application 
or low-grip conditions. Higher values will be more aggressive with 
torque cut to reduce wheelspin while lower values will allow slightly 
more wheelspin before intervening. Setting this value to “0” will 
disable the Traction Control. This value is adjustable from the in-car 
F8 black box.
THROTTLE SHAPE
The Throttle Shape setting will adjust how linear the torque delivery 
is based on the throttle pedal position. Setting “1” is purely linear, 
with a given percent of throttle delivering a similar percentage of 
max torque (25% throttle = 25% torque). As settings are increased 
the torque delivery becomes more non-linear, similar to a butterfly-
style throttle: less torque increase at very low and very high throttle 
percentage and more torque increase in the throttle’s mid-range. 
This will change the feel of the car when throttle is initially applied 
and is a good tool for drivers with various driving styles.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the total weight of the car, displayed in 
percent. This is adjusted via the corner spring preload adjustments 
(Front Torsion Bar Turns and Rear Spring Perch Offset). This value 
should be around 50% for most tracks, with the garage tech limiting 
the value between 49.5% and 50.5%.
NOSE WEIGHT
Nose Weight is the amount of weight on the car’s front axle relative 
to the total weight of the car, displayed in a percentage. This is not 
directly adjustable, aside from varying fuel loads, but can have an 
effect on the chassis handling balance: Higher nose weight values 
will lead to understeer in slower corners while lower values will trend 
towards oversteer.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset settings.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing the front ride height will decrease overall downforce 
and shift the aerodynamic balance rearward, but will decrease 
drag slightly. Conversely, reducing front ride height will increase 
downforce and shift aero balance forward while slightly increasing 
overall drag.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at a corner of the car by changing the 
installed position of the spring’s upper perch. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will reduce spring preload, lowering the corner of the 
car. Reducing the spring perch offset will increase spring preload 
and raise the corner of the car. These changes should be kept 
symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same corner 
ride heights and no change in cross weight.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how much 
force (Pounds or Newtons) is required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front 
end, stiffer springs can keep the front splitter from moving too much 
under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease mechanical 
grip and can cause understeer in slower corners. Softer springs will 
result in more front end movement, which can hurt aero, but will 
increase mechanical grip in the front axle and reduce understeer (or 
cause oversteer, in extreme cases). Due to homologation rules, front 
spring rates must be symmetrical across the rear axle and can only 
be changed in pairs.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how much 
force (Pounds or Newtons) is required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front 
end, stiffer springs can keep the front splitter from moving too much 
under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease mechanical 
grip and can cause understeer in slower corners. Softer springs will 
result in more front end movement, which can hurt aero, but will 
increase mechanical grip in the front axle and reduce understeer (or 
cause oversteer, in extreme cases). Due to homologation rules, front 
spring rates must be symmetrical across the rear axle and can only 
be changed in pairs.
SHOCK DEFLECTION
Similar to Spring Deflection, Shock Deflection is how much the shock 
is compressed from its fully-extended length. While this is not a 
representation of any kind of loading on the shock, it is a way to 
see how much travel is available in the suspension before the shock 
runs out of available travel and contacts any travel-limiting devices. 
Be careful to pay attention to how much deflection is available for 
suspension extension, as the tire will become unloaded when shock 
deflection reaches zero.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Raising the rear ride height will increase overall downforce and shift 
aero to the front of the car but will increase drag. Decreasing rear 
ride height will do the opposite, with aero shifting rearward and 
overall downforce and drag decreasing.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this
setting applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car
to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a
force per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining 
ride height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, 
stiffer springs will maintain the car’s aero platform better while 
sacrificing mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps 
better and increase mechanical grip, but will cause the car’s 
aerodynamic platform to suffer. Due to homologation rules, rear 
spring rates must be symmetrical across the rear axle and can only 
be changed in pairs.
SPRING DEFLECTION
The Spring Deflection value is how far the spring has compressed 
from its length when unloaded. This is a way to see how much 
each spring is preloaded and whether or not the chassis setup 
has any kind of asymmetry that could lead to inconsistent 
handling characteristics.
SHOCK DEFLECTION
Similar to Spring Deflection, Shock Deflection is how much the shock 
is compressed from its fully-extended length. While this is not a 
representation of any kind of loading on the shock, it is a way to 
see how much travel is available in the suspension before the shock 
runs out of available travel and contacts any travel-limiting devices. 
Be careful to pay attention to how much deflection is available for 
suspension extension, as the tire will become unloaded when shock 
deflection reaches zero. This is especially important for the rear of 
the car during braking and high-rake configurations, since running 
out of shock travel could cause sudden oversteer.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center
of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative 
camber is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber
values will increase the cornering force generated by the tire,
but will reduce the amount of grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a 
balance between life and performance. Higher rear camber values 
can increase cornering stability but reduce straight-line stability 
under braking, while lower rear camber values can often increase 
traction out of low-grip corners.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the rear end, adding toe-in will increase straight-
line stability but may hurt how well the car changes direction.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
THIRD SPRING
The Third Spring, similar to the front Heave Spring, is a spring 
element configured to provide resistance only in vertical suspension 
movement without affecting roll stiffness. This spring element 
is helpful with controlling increasing aerodynamic loads and 
maintaining the proper aerodynamic attitude around a circuit. 
The rear end’s third spring is crucial in maintaining and controlling 
the rear ride height around a circuit to maximize the downforce 
produced by the rear bodywork.
THIRD PERCH OFFSET
The Third Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the rear Third 
Spring. This is one of two methods to adjust ride height through the 
rear Third Spring element, with lower values preloading the spring 
more and raising front ride heights. Conversely, higher values will 
unload the spring and lower front ride heights.
THIRD SPRING DEFLECTION
Third Spring Deflection represents the amount the rear Third
Spring is compressed under static conditions. This is not directly 
adjustable but will change with adjustments to the Third Perch 
Offset and rear Spring settings.
THIRD SLIDER DEFLECTION
The Slider Deflection is how far the slider mechanism the
Third Spring is mounted on has compressed from fully extended. 
Similar to a shock but without any damping forces produced, this 
doesn’t influence the suspension’s behavior.
ARB SIZE
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size alters the stiffness of the rear 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the roll 
stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical oversteer. Conversely, reducing the ARB size 
will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing 
mechanical oversteer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from 
the steering, but grip across the rear axle will increase.
ARB SETTING
The ARB Setting is a fine-tuning adjustment that alters the overall 
stiffness of the rear ARB assembly. The Soft setting will provide the 
least roll resistance and induce some understeer while cornering, 
while the Hard setting will provide the most roll resistance and shift 
the mechanical balance towards oversteer. The Medium option falls 
between the two settings in both roll stiffness and handling balance.
PUSHROD LENGTH ADJUSTMENT
This adjusts the length of both rear suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great way 
to adjust rear ride height without altering the preload on the Heave 
Spring or either of the rear corner springs.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage.
DIFF PRELOAD
The differential can be set with a static load applied. Higher values 
produce more locking force in the differential in all conditions, 
producing more understeer under acceleration and deceleration. 
This value will also affect mid-corner performance, with higher 
values not allowing the differential to unlock as much, increasing 
mid-corner understeer.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LS COMPRESSION DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock shaft is moving 
at relatively low speeds, usually during movement caused by driver 
input (steering, braking, & throttle) and typical cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly. 
HS COMPRESSION DAMPING
High Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track and risk the bottom of the 
chassis coming into contact with the track surface.
LS REBOUND DAMPING
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude 
but can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension 
can’t expand fast enough to maintain proper contact with the track. 
Excessive rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the 
wheel bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension following large 
bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the 
shock will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend 
more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar 
results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations 
if set improperly.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
ADJUSTING THE IRACING BASELINE SETUPS
AERODYNAMIC BALANCE MECHANICAL BALANCE
This setup and other setups that have been provided are intended 
to be raceable setups as well as a good place to start while making 
your own adjustments. These notes will give you a starting point to 
help you make appropriate setup choices.
A framework you can use to start making adjustments is to 
understand whether a tweak affects aerodynamic balance or 
mechanical balance characteristics of the car, and to try to achieve a 
neutral (no oversteer or understeer) balance on both.
There are two parts to setting the correct aerodynamic balance
for your car: the options that affect aerodynamic balance directly
in the garage (wing angles and garage ride heights) as well as 
options that affect the car’s dynamic ride heights at speed (heave, 
third, and corner springs) and transient motions (dampers).
These settings all interact to determine what overall aero balance 
the car has through different types of corners.
Keep in mind that aero balance is still in effect in low-speed
corners - although its effect is diminished it will have an impact
on the car’s handling.
Also, consider that some options that affect aero balance, 
particularly those that affect the car’s dynamic ride heights, will also 
have an effect on roll behavior and therefore mechanical balance. 
For example, softening the front corner springs will allow the front to 
sink lower at speed. This increases the difference between front and 
rear ride heights which pushes aero balance further forward (more 
oversteer) while also lowering the total roll resistance of the front as 
if you had softened the anti-roll bar.
On the other hand, third and heave springs (and their corresponding 
dampers) only affect pitch motion of the car. These are used to 
tweak dynamic ride heights without affecting roll behavior or general 
mechanical balance.
Options that affect the chassis’s roll stiffness (anti-roll bars, corner 
springs, and dampers in transient motions) and differential settings 
play into what is felt as mechanical balance.
As you are adjusting roll stiffness be aware of the total roll stiffness 
as well as the balance between front and rear roll stiffness. The 
balance between front and rear stiffness can be felt as balance 
shifts between turn-in and on-throttle behavior, while total roll 
stiffness affects the overall responsiveness and pliability of the car 
while turning.
In the Ligier JS P320, the only differential adjustment available is 
the preload adjustment. As a driver, this adjustment is the easiest to 
understand: less preload will make the car oversteer more on corner 
entry and understeer on corner exit and vice versa.
This car has third and heave springs, allowing you to adjust pitch motion (and dynamic ride heights) without affecting roll stiffness. Use these 
in conjunction with the corner springs to set the dynamic ride heights of the car.
The provided baseline setups have their ride heights and springs set to take advantage of the aerodynamic properties of the car. You are 
encouraged to experiment and optimize them further, but keep in mind that settings which stray far from the existing dynamic ride heights are 
likely to generate less downforce.
In high speed corners, aero balance has a large effect compared to 
mechanical balance, so we can use high speed corners to tweak our 
aero balance for a rough baseline which we can trust while tweaking 
other parts of the setup.
Starting out, it’s easiest to set aero balance first before dialing in 
mechanical balance.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
LIGIER JS P320 | USER MANUAL
LIGIER JS P320 | SETUP TIPS
TIRE CONTACT PATCH FINAL NOTE
The last consideration is the tire contact patch. Settings that 
affect the tire contact patch (camber and toe) behave mostly 
independently of other settings, which makes them easy to tweak at 
any point along the setup process. However, they can be difficult to 
optimize if other parts of the car’s balance are inducing undesirable 
behaviors. Use toe adjustments to adjust how much resistance the 
tires provide to your initial turn-in - for example, if you want more 
braking stability, you can add positive toe in the rear.
For camber, consider the trade-off between camber thrust (the 
additional lateral force that the angled tire provides) and contact 
patch size. The more camber used, the more lateral force will be 
generated at the cost of longitudinal grip (grip under braking and 
acceleration, due to the smaller contact patch).
As you make changes to each setup option, it is likely that you
will reach a point where you are unsure if a change is helping
the car’s balance or not. That often happens when another option
is inducing an undesirable behavior and covering up details of
the option you are currently adjusting. When this happens,
try experimenting with another setting and see if it is more effective 
in optimizing the car’s balance.