--- PAGE 1 ---

1
MCLAREN 720S GT3
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 14
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 23
 Chassis Adjustments » 23
 Differential Adjustments » 24
Chassis » 14
Setup Tips » 22
 Aero Balance Calculator » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 15
 Front Corners » 16 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
SETUP TIPS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 20
 Gears / Differential » 19

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Mclaren 720S GT3! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful 
in getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE-WISHBONE FRONT 
AND REAR SUSPENSION
TWIN-TURBOCHARGED, FLAT-PLANE V8
LENGTH
4664 mm
183.6 in
WIDTH
2040 mm
80.3 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
244 CID
TORQUE
492 lb-ft
667 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8000 RPM 
POWER
520 bhp
387 kW
WHEELBASE
2696 mm
106.1 in
DRY WEIGHT
1300 kg
2932 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1494 kg
3293 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. 
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
However the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to 
downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear selected 
and would incur engine damage. If that is the case, the gear change 
command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The McLaren 720S GT3 EVO features a three-page digital display mounted in the dash to provide information to the driver 
as clearly as possible. The default display page can be set in the garage and the page can be changed from within the car 
via the In-Car Adjustments black box.
Top Row
Map Current Throttle Shape Setting
TC1 & TC2 Current Traction Control system setting. These values are linked and will show the same value
ABS Current Anti-Lock Brake System setting
FUNC Inoperative
Left Cluster
Predicted Laptime The estimated lap time for the current lap, shown live, based on previous laps and current time delta.
Lap Delta Current time difference between the current lap and the previous best lap time
Last Lap The previously completed lap time
Laps Number of laps completed since leaving the garage
Water Temp
Engine cooling water temperature (°C or °F). This value is color-coded: Blue is cold, white is optimum 
operating temperature, and red is overheated.
Battery Volts Current electrical system voltage
Center
RPM Engine RPM is shown at the top of the center column
Gear The currently selected gear is shown in the center of the display
Speed Vehicle speed, in kph or mph, is shown beneath the gear indicator
Right Cluster
Tire Pressure Text
Within the “Tyre Data” section, the live Tire Pressures are shown as the upper number for each corner of 
the car. These values are color-coded: Blue is low pressure indicating a new, cold tire, White is optimum 
pressure, Red is over-inflated. 
In the center of the Tire Data cluster are four blocks serving as visual representations of the Tire Pressures, 
Blue is a cold, low-pressure tire, Green is optimum pressure, Orange indicates the high pressure of a hot tire.
Tire Carcass Temperatures
Live tire carcass temperatures are shown beneath the pressures, color-coded in the same way as the 
pressures: Blue is too cold, White is optimum, and Red is over-heated.
Fuel Used Amount of fuel used since leaving the pits
Fuel Level Amount of fuel currently in the fuel tank
Fuel Last Lap Amount of fuel used on the previous lap
RACE 1 DASH CONFIGURATION

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | DASH PAGES
Right Cluster
Brake Temperature
The brake rotor temperatures are shown on the right side, in °C or °F, in color-coded values: 
Blue is cold, white is optimum, and red is overheated.
Tire Pressure Icons
As with Race1, the tire pressures are shown as color-coded blocks to convey when the tires are at 
optimum pressures or are under- or over-inflated.
Brake Balance F The current brake bias setting, in % to the front, is shown below the Brake Temperatures and Tire Pressures.
Left Cluster
Time Delta Bar
The current time delta is shown as both a graphical bar and a value beneath the bar, comparing the 
current lap against the fastest lap of the session.
Last Laptime The lap time for the previously completed lap
Right Cluster
Predicted Laptime The estimated lap time for the current lap, shown live, based on previous laps and current time delta.
Tire Pressures
The live Tire Pressures are shown for each corner of the car below the Predicted Lap time. These values 
are color-coded: Blue is under-inflated, white is optimum pressure, red is over-inflated.
RACE 2 DASH CONFIGURATION
QUALI DASH CONFIGURATION
The Race2 page is similar to the Race1 page, however the cluster of information on the right displays information about the braking system.
The QUALI page strips away most of the information from the race page and gives the driver only the essentials needed for Qualifying 
sessions. The upper and center sections are the same as the Race pages, however the left and right clusters change.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | DASH PAGES
PIT SPEED LIMITER
Dash Information
Speed The car’s speed is shown at the top of the screen in the center
Tire Pressures Tire pressures are shown below the speed in the center of the display
Gear The currently-selected gear is shown at the bottom-center
Brake Balance F This shows the current brake bias setting
Fuel Used The amount of fuel used since the last time the car left the pits
Pitlane Timer Time spent on pit road since the limiter was activated
Coolant Temp
Engine cooling water temperature (°C or °F). This value is color-coded: Blue is cold, white is optimum 
operating temperature, and red is overheated.
Screen Color
The Pit Limiter Screen will change color based on how fast the vehicle is traveling in relation to the pit road 
speed limit for the current track. If the speed is much faster than the pit road speed limit the screen will be 
black, changing to red when the speed is 10-20kph above the limit, yellow when the speed is 3-10kph above 
the limit, and green when the speed matches the pit road speed limit.
Whenever the Pit Speed Limiter is activated the display will automatically switch to a dedicated screen to assist with pit road entry and 
maintaining pit road speed.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | DASH PAGES
When the optimum RPM for an upshift is approaching, the entire set of LEDs will illuminate in blue. Drivers should initiate the upshift when 
these solid blue lights appear.
Surrounding the digital display is a series of LED lights to quickly convey information about car performance and assist with shifting.
The goal is for the shift to occur when the blue/red LEDs appear (driver reaction time considered).
In the event of wheel lockup, LEDs on the side of the display will illuminate to represent which wheel is locking. Front wheels are indicated by 
yellow LEDs and rear wheels are indicated by green LEDs. Whenever the Traction Control system is on and attempting to reduce wheelspin, a 
blue LED will illuminate on the left side of the display.
SHIFT & STATUS LIGHTS

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of 
the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Tires fitted to the Mclaren 720S GT3 car can be changed based 
on weather conditions. The Dry option fits a slick tire intended for 
dry track conditions while the Wet option fits a treaded tire for wet 
track surfaces.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given 
tire is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner 
and outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel 
alignment and the center temperatures can be compared to the 
outer temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the 
rear wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to 
note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here 
DO NOT result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, 
changes to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car. This 
calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with higher settings. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as “rake”. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.
The Wing Angle value in the Aero Calculator section is tied directly to 
the Wing Angle in the Chassis page’s Rear section. Changing one will 
automatically change the other. Information on how much to adjust 
ride heights for a given wing angle change can be found in the Setup 
Tips section of this guide.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be adjusted to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting.
This option changes the orientation of the ARB blades and are
given numerical values for simplicity, with #1 being the softest
option and the blades becoming stiffer as the value is decreased
to the minimum setting of #8. Stiffer blade settings will increase
front roll stiffness and induce understeer while softer blade settings 
will reduce front roll stiffness and reduce understeer.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels 
are closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheels, and Toe-
out (Negative value in the garage) is the opposite. On the front 
end, adding toe-out will increase slip in the inside tire and decrease 
straight-line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and 
increase straight-line stability.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but allow the least modulation.
ENDURANCE LIGHTS
An extra set of headlights can be installed for night racing to 
increase driver visibility. Installing these will not affect vehicle 
performance.
NIGHT LED STRIP COLOR
The color of LED strips over the doors. These are used to quickly 
identify the car during a night session.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in the 
front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tires but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones.
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is using. Twelve positions are available: 
Position 2 has the least intervention/support, position 12 has the 
most support, and position 1 disables the ABS completely.
More intervention reduces the possibility of and the duration of 
lockups during braking but can result in longer braking distances if 
the system is set overly aggressive for the amount of available grip. 
Positions 2-7 should be used in dry conditions with settings 8-12 for 
wet conditions. This can be changed in-car via the ABS setting.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The Traction Control setting determines how aggressively the ECU 
cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel spin. Twelve positions 
are available: Settings 2-12 range from least intervention/sensitivity 
(position 2) to the highest intervention/sensitivity (position 12) while 
position 1 disables the traction control completely. More intervention 
will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce 
overall performance if the traction control is cutting engine torque 
too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration. Settings 2-7 
are for dry conditions and settings 8-12 are for wet conditions. This 
can be changed in-car via the TC1 & TC2 settings. TC1 and TC2 are 
linked together at this time.
THROTTLE SHAPE SETTING
The Throttle Shape setting will adjust how linear the torque delivery 
is based on the throttle pedal position. There are 3 Settings.
Setting 1 is purely linear, with a given percent of throttle delivering 
a similar percentage of max torque (25% throttle = 25% torque). 
Setting 2 is a more aggressive, it provides more torque at low 
throttle angles. Setting 3 is a gradual torque request for use in 
wet conditions.
DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. Three options are 
available as previously described in the dash configuration section of 
this manual.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in 
more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the ride heights at each corner of the car.
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight on the front two tires.
This always includes the driver. It varies with fuel load.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the ride height adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to the floor of the car at the front axle 
centerline. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing front ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness.
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control. However overly 
stiff springs will result in increased tire load variation which will 
manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of 
stiffer springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks 
and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch 
control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when 
altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to 
rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring 
stiffness the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made by 
changing individual corner ride heights.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom surface of the car’s floor at 
the rear axle centerline. Increasing rear ride height will decrease 
rear downforce as well as increase overall downforce and will allow 
for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase rear downforce 
percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the 
weight transfer across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical 
tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance 
considerations and static rear ride heights should be considered and 
matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension. Engaging the bump rubbers on the rear can 
keep the chassis off the track in high-load situations to keep the 
car from bottoming out on the track, like Daytona, but due to the 
increased stiffness it can make the car more difficult to control 
when cornering or during throttle application.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel is 
closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the 
opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases 
in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should 
be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that 
the values are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at 
the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels are 
twice as powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the 
car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised 
to keep the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or 
asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily asymmetric tracks 
such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in performance from 
running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other 
setup parameters.
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded 
into the world.
ARB BLADES
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be adjusted to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This 
option changes the orientation of the ARB blades and are given 
numerical values for simplicity, with #1 being the softest option 
and the blades becoming stiffer as the value is increased to the 
maximum setting of #7. Stiffer blade settings will increase rear roll 
stiffness and induce oversteer while softer blade settings will 
reduce rear roll stiffness and reduce oversteer.
REAR WING ANGLE
The Wing Angle refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance 
it is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the forward gear ratios in the transmission. 
Two choices are available: FIA and IMSA Short. The FIA gear stack 
is suited to the majority of tracks, including high-speed/low-drag 
tracks like Daytona and Le Mans. The IMSA Short gear stack is 
suited to some very high-downforce tracks with top speeds
under 240kph.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treated as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces. 
DIFFERENTIAL PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. On 
the McLaren 720S GT3 EVO, setting 40 is minimum damping (least 
resistance to compression) while setting 0 is maximum damping 
(most resistance to compression). Increasing the low speed 
compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to 
this corner of the car during transient movements such as braking 
and direction change with increased damping usually providing an 
increase in turn-in response but a reduction in overall grip in the 
context of front dampers.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. Setting 0 is maximum 
damping while Setting 50 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When 
tuning for handling, higher front low speed rebound can increase 
on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce nose lift) while 
lower values will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce 
understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound 
can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact. Setting 0 is maximum 
damping (most resistant to extension) while Setting 40 is minimum 
damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in result 
to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results 
in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations if 
set improperly. Setting 0 is maximum damping while Setting 50 
is minimum damping.
FRONT DAMPERS

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces.
On the McLaren 720S GT3 EVO, Setting 40 is minimum damping 
(least resistance to compression) while Setting 0 is maximum 
damping (most resistance to compression). Increasing the low speed 
compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this 
corner of the car during transient movements such as braking and 
direction change with increased damping usually increasing the cars 
tendency to understeer on throttle application.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. Setting 0 is maximum 
damping while Setting 50 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. As 
at the front, high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform 
control for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response 
but it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in 
rebounding as this can result in the tire losing complete contact with 
the track surface. Provided this is avoided,, an increase in rebound 
stiffness can help to ‘slow down’ the change in pitch of the car as 
the brakes are applied, increasing braking stability and off-throttle 
mechanical understeer. Setting 0 is maximum damping (most 
resistant to extension) while Setting 40 is minimum damping 
(least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in result 
to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results 
in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations if 
set improperly. Setting 0 is maximum damping while Setting 50 
is minimum damping.
REAR DAMPERS

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
Baseline is a 50% fuel load setup which is intended solely for loading 
the car. As such, this setup should always pass tech inspection 
at every fuel load and track (Except Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations where ‘nuburgring_sprint/endurance’ should be used) 
but will not provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition.
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended to 
start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating the 
other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track may 
benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum 
speed reached.
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Sebring International Raceway High
Daytona International Speedway Low/Medium Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Sonoma Raceway High
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Hungaroring High Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Lime Rock Park High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series 
and is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations. 
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +10.5
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 35.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 70.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +0.5
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1.5 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +4.5 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +1.5 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -4.5 mm
These adjustment sensitivities are not the same in all parts of the 
aeromap nor are they valid for all rear wing angles. For this reason, it 
is strongly suggested that one use the Aero Balance Calc tool on the 
Tires/Aero tab: 
• Start with a setup that is known to have good high 
speed aero balance. 
• Note the % Front Downforce and dynamic RHs at speed.
• Add or subtract Rear Wing Angle for the desired overall 
downforce change
• Adjust the Rear RH at speed until the target % Front Downforce 
value is reached
• Apply the difference in dynamic Rear RH needed to retain balance 
to the static Rear RHs on the Chassis tab. 
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed.

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | USER MANUAL
MCLAREN 720S GT3 | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Two adjustment options are available for the differential. 
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on 
throttle oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces 
and kerb strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, less 
off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.