--- PAGE 1 ---

1
MERCEDES AMG GT4
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
Tire Data » 11
 Front » 12
Chassis » 12
Setup Tips » 19
Tires & Aero » 10 
 In-Car Dials » 13
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear » 17
 Rear Corners » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
SETUP TIPS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Mercedes-AMG GT4! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Compared to its big brother in the GT3 class, the Mercedes-AMG GT4 still packs a powerful punch. 
Despite carrying a smaller 4.0-liter V8 engine, bringing it in line with a street-legal Mercedes-AMG GT, the 
car still produces a whopping 544 horsepower. The car also possesses most of the signature elements 
that set Mercedes vehicle design apart from its competitors, from a long and menacing front end to a 
signature grille that lets other racers know exactly who’s trailing you.
In the hands of the Black Falcon and Schnitzelalm race teams, the car has repeatedly proven its worth 
in the Nurburgring 24 Hours, winning the competitive SP10 class on its first two tries and adding a third 
victory in 2021. Also a popular addition to the IMSA Michelin Pilot Challenge grid, Team TGM gave the car 
its first championship in 2018 with drivers Hugh Plumb and Owen Trinkler, and the car took at least one 
win in each of its first four seasons in the division.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | TECH SPECS
FRONT AND REAR 
DOUBLEWISHBONE SUSPENSION
TWIN-TURBO ALUMINUM 90 DEGREE V8
LENGTH
4619 mm
181.9 in
WIDTH
1996 mm
78.6 in
WHEELBASE
2630 mm
103.5 in
DRY WEIGHT
1486 kg
3276 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1595 kg
3516 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
244.1 cid
TORQUE
425 lb-ft
576 Nm
POWER
460 bhp
343 kW
RPM LIMIT
6875
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. 
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
However the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to 
downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear selected 
and would incur engine damage. If that is the case, the gear change 
command will simply be ignored.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, TC and ABS settings. While this is not mandatory, this 
will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and stability 
management systems to suit your driving while out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction.
However, the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to 
downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear requested. 
If that is the case, the downshift command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when all the shift lights flash red, this 
is at approximately 6600 rpm but will shift up or down slightly 
depending on the selected gear.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The dash display in this car is adjustable and features three selectable pages to display differing levels 
of vehicle information.
DASH PAGE 1CONFIGURATION
Top Row Graphical depiction of engine rpm.
Row 2 Left Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 2 Second from left Battery Voltage (V)
Row 2 Center lap time delta to best lap
Row 2 Right Road Speed (km/h or mph)
Row 3 Left Engine oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Second from left Gearbox oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 3 Center Currently selected gear
Row 3 Third from right Currently selected ABS map
Row 3 Second from right Currently selected Traction Control map
Row 3 Right Currently selected engine map
Row 4 Left Last lap time
Row 4 Right Remaining fuel (Liters or US Gallons)
Bottom Row Selected dash display page

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGE 2 CONFIGURATION
Top Row. Graphical depiction of engine rpm
Row 2 Left Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Row 2 Second from left Battery Voltage (V)
Row 2 Center lap time delta to best lap
Row 2 Right Road Speed (km/h or mph)
Row 3 Left LF air pressure (Bar or psi)
Row 3 Second from Left RF air pressure (Bar or psi)
Row 3 Center Currently selected gear
Row 3 Third from right Currently selected ABS map
Row 3 Second from right Currently selected Traction Control map
Row 3 Right Currently selected engine map
Row 4 Left LR air pressure (Bar or psi)
Row 4 Second from Left RR air pressure (Bar or psi)
Row 4 Right Remaining fuel (Liters or US Gallons)
Bottom Row Selected dash display page

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | DASH PAGES
PIT SPEED LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active a blue bar will appear at the top of the screen specifying the current vehicle speed. This bar will be blue while 
under the limit and red when over. In addition to this, the shift light cluster will flash with alternating blue and yellow lights.
SHIFT LIGHTS
The shift lights illuminate from the outer edges inwardly. Illumination of the first LED will shift depending on the selected gear as such, 
the below values are only valid for 3rd gear.
2 Green - 5790 rpm
4 Green - 5950 rpm
2 Yellow - 6110 rpm
4 Yellow - 6270 rpm
2 Red - 6430 rpm
All Red Flashing - 6600 rpm

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into 
the world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while 
Wet tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat 
buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set to 
track characteristics for optimum performance. Generally speaking, 
it is advisable to start at lower pressures and work your way 
upwards as required.
HOT AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold 
and hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way 
should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in 
handling balance over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should 
be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed once 
the tires have stabilized after a period of laps. As the number of laps 
per run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is 
approximately 50% of a full fuel run.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car 
has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire 
is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these 
values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance.
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done 
by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on 
track. These values are measured in three zones across the tread of 
the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB SETTING
Increasing the ARB setting shortens the ARB moment arm and 
will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in 
less body roll but increasing mechanical understeer. This can in 
some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel for the driver. 
Conversely, reducing the ARB setting lengthens the ARB moment 
arm, softening the suspension in roll and increasing body roll but 
decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a
less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front 
axle will increase. Along with this, the effects of softening or 
stiffening the ARB assembly in relation to aerodynamics should also 
be considered, a softer ARB configuration will result in more body 
roll which will decrease control of the aero platform in high speed 
corners and potentially lead to a loss in aero efficiency.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in 
will reduce the slip and increase straight-line stability.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting on
the front corners. This cannot be adjusted per say but is influenced 
by the total fuel load carried. As fuel burns (or less starting fuel is 
specified) the nose weight of the car will increase due to the fuel 
tank location. This will tend to push the overall balance towards 
understeer. As such, this reference item can be useful in establishing 
how much of an adjustment to the setup is required when changing 
fuel load.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DASH DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. 2 options are 
available as previously described in the dash configuration section
of this manual.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones.
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes but providing the most modulation, 
while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the 
effectiveness of the brakes but the least modulation.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. 12 positions are available. 
Position 11 has the least intervention/support while position 1 has
the most support. Position 12 disables the ABS completely.
Position 4 is the recommended baseline setting. More intervention 
reduces the possibility of and the duration of lockups during braking 
but can result in longer braking distances if the system is set overly 
aggressive for the amount of available grip.
TC SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. 12 positions are available. Settings 1-11 range from least 
intervention/sensitivity (position 11) through to highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 1). Position 12 disables the traction control 
completely. Position 10 is the recommended baseline setting. More 
intervention will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but 
can reduce overall performance if the traction control is cutting 
engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. 
Since these values are measured to a specific reference point on
the car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as 
decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness.
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however, they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer springs 
will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs 
in these situations will result in increased overall performance. 
Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch control of 
the platform and ARB changes should be considered when altering 
corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to rear roll 
stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness 
the ARB stiffness should be increased to retain the same roll 
stiffness as previously. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted
to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring
rate change.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper. In this case 0 is minimum damping (least resistance 
to compression) while 15 is maximum damping (most resistance 
to compression). Increasing the bump stiffness will result in a 
faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car during transient 
movements such as braking and direction change with increased 
damping usually providing an increase in turn-in response but a 
reduction in overall grip in the context of front dampers.
High speed compression damping will increase proportionally to the 
increase in low speed compression damping which will also result 
in harsher response to kerb strikes. At smoother tracks more bump 
stiffness will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks 
or ones with aggressive kerbs less compression damping can result 
in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The Rebound Stiffness setting is a paired adjustment to both low 
and high speed rebound damping characteristics.
Increasing rebound damping will slow down the rate at which the 
damper extends in both low and high speed situations. A typical 
low damper speed situation would be as the car rolls back to level 
on a corner exit while a high speed situation would be where the 
suspension is extending after large kerb contact. 0 is minimum 
damping (least resistance to extension) while 12 is maximum 
damping (most resistance to extension). While high rebound 
stiffness will result in improved platform control for aerodynamic 
performance and overall chassis response it is important to avoid 
situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this will 
result in the tire losing complete contact with the track surface 
which can induce or exacerbate severe oscillations.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well as 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
BUMP STIFFNESS
The bump stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed compression damping characteristics of 
the damper with identical ranges to those of the front dampers. 
Increasing the compression damping will result in a faster transfer 
of weight to this corner of the car during transient movements 
such as accelerating and direction change with increased damping 
usually providing an increase in response but a reduction in overall 
grip especially at corner exit traction in the context of rear dampers. 
Excessively stiff compression damping can cause very poor traction 
on rough tracks as it can result in large tire load variation and a 
reduction in overall grip.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
The rebound stiffness setting is a paired adjustment controlling both 
the low and high speed damping characteristics of the damper with 
identical ranges to those of the front dampers. Increasing rebound 
damping will slow down the rate at which the damper extends in 
both low and high speed situations. As at the front, high rebound 
stiffness will result in improved platform control for aerodynamic 
performance and overall chassis response but it is important to 
avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this 
will result in the tire losing complete contact with the track surface. 
This can be particularly detrimental during braking events and during 
the initial turn-in phase though an increase in rebound stiffness can 
help to ‘slow down’ the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are 
applied, potentially increasing braking stability.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will 
result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in response 
during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided 
if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce straight line 
speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that the values 
are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at the front. 
This means that individual values on the rear wheels are twice as 
powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the car when 
the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised to keep 
the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or asymmetric 
handling behavior; however, heavily asymmetric tracks such as 
Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in performance from running 
asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other setup parameters.
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded 
into the world.
ARB SETTING
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll stiffness 
of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing 
mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the car to “take a 
set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing the ARB 
assembly stiffness will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body 
roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer.
This can result in a less-responsive feel from the rear especially in 
transient movements, but grip across the rear axle will increase.
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.
DIFF CLUTCHES
The number of clutch faces affect how much overall force is applied 
to keep the differential locked. Treated as a multiplier, adding more 
faces produces increasingly more locking force but has no impact 
around zero input torque. This can be considered to be a coarse 
adjustment to the differential and is most impactful under true coast 
and wide open throttle situations.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT4 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
BASELINE
50% fuel level, the default setup when first loading the car, 
intentionally conservative to allow you to acclimatize to a new
car or track.
BASELINE_WET
50% fuel level, the default setup for a wet track with wet tires
fitted and driver aids adjusted for wet conditions.
ENDURANCE
100% fuel level, intended for most tracks where optimal wing
angles will be in the 3-5 range and race lengths are at, or over,
one hour in length.
ENDURANCE LOW DOWNFORCE
100% fuel level, intended for tracks where straight-line performance 
is a priority (Daytona, Le Mans, etc.) and a low wing angle is 
required. Fueled for race lengths at, or over, one hour in length.
Should you choose to make your own adjustments the easiest way 
to change the balance of the car is through the Anti-Roll Bars or 
the Wing setting:
Stiffer front ARB - More understeer
Stiffer rear ARB - More oversteer
Lower wing setting - More oversteer, less downforce, and higher 
straight-line speed.
Higher wing setting - More understeer, more downforce, and lower 
straight-line speed.
SPRINT_OPEN
56% fuel level, intended for most tracks in the Open Setup
series where optimal wing angles are in the 3-5 range.
SPRINT_OPEN_LOW_DOWNFORCE
56% fuel level, intended for tracks in the Open Setup series
where straight-line performance is a priority and optimal wing
angles are low.
SPRINT_FIXED
50% fuel level, intended for short sprint races and the setup
used for the Fixed Setup series.
In the event a setup fails tech inspection after fuel level or other 
changes it is likely the ride heights require adjustment. This is 
performed by using the Spring Perch Offset adjustments at either 
end of the car: Right-clicks (positive) will reduce the ride height, 
left-clicks (negative) will increase the ride height.
In the iRacing Setup folder you will find several default setups to choose from: