--- PAGE 1 ---

1
MERCEDES AMG 
GT3 2020
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tires » 11
 Front, Brakes, Lights » 13
Chassis » 13 
 Aero Balance Calculator » 12
Tires & Aero » 11 
 In-Car Adjsutments » 14
 Left / Right Front » 15 
 Rear » 17
 Left / Right Rear » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 18
 Gears / Differential » 17
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 21
 Chassis Adjustments » 21
 Differential Adjustments » 22
Setup Tips » 20
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Mercedes AMG GT3 2020! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate yoursupport and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | TECH SPECS
6.2L V8 DOHC
DOUBLE WISHBONE FRONT 
AND REAR SUSPENSION
LENGTH
4710 mm
185.4 in
WIDTH
2040 mm
80.3 in
WHEELBASE
2630 mm
103.5 in
DRY WEIGHT
1320 kg
2910 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1440 kg
3175 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
6.2 Liters
378.8 cid
TORQUE
460 lb-ft
625 Nm
POWER
500 bhp
373 kW
RPM LIMIT
7800
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while out 
on the track. 
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when all the shift lights flash red, this 
is at approximately 7025 rpm but will shift up or down slightly 
depending on the selected gear.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click 
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track 
of choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may 
load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting 
the setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The digital dash display in this car features two selectable pages. 
Top Row
RPM Graphical depiction of engine rpm.
Row 3
T Oil Engine oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
T Gear Gearbox oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Lap Time Last lap time
Gear Currently selected gear
ABS Currently selected ABS map
TC Currently selected Traction Control map
MAP Currently selected engine map
Fuel Remaining fuel (Liters or US Gallons)
Row 2
T Water Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
V Batt Battery Voltage (V)
Laptime Diff Lap time delta to best lap
Speed Road Speed (km/h or mph)
Bottom Row
Bottom Bar Selected dash display page
DASH PAGE 1

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGE 2
Top Row
RPM Graphical depiction of engine rpm.
Row 3
Top Left LF air pressure and temperature (Bar or psi / Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Top Right RF air pressure and temperature (Bar or psi / Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Bottom Left LR air pressure and temperature (Bar or psi / Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Bottom Right RR air pressure and temperature (Bar or psi / Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Gear Currently selected gear
ABS Currently selected ABS map
TC Currently selected Traction Control map
MAP Currently selected engine map
Fuel Remaining fuel (Liters or US Gallons)
Row 2
T Water Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
V Batt Battery Voltage (V)
Laptime Diff Lap time delta to best lap
Speed Road Speed (km/h or mph)
Bottom Row
Bottom Bar Selected dash display page

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
PIT LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active a blue bar will appear at the top of the 
screen specifying the current vehicle speed. This bar will be blue 
The shift lights illuminate from the outer edges towards the center 
in the following pattern:
2 Green - 6180 rpm
4 Green - 6350 rpm
2 Yellow - 6520 rpm
4 Yellow - 6690 rpm
2 Red - 6860 rpm
All Red Flashing - 7030 rpm
while under the limit and red when over. In addition to this, the shift 
light cluster will flash with alternating blue and yellow lights. 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold and hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to 
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Hot pressures should be analyzed once the tires have 
stabilized after a period of laps. As the number of laps per run will 
vary depending upon track length a good starting point 
is approximately 50% of a full fuel run.
TIRES & AERO
TIRES
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track are 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT, BRAKES, LIGHTS
ARB SETTING
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can 
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the setting will increase the roll stiffness of the front 
suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical 
understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive 
steering feel from the driver. Conversely, reducing the number of 
ARB arms will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll 
but decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a less-
responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle 
will increase. Along with this, the effects of softening or stiffening 
the ARB assembly in relation to aerodynamics should also be 
considered, softer ARB assemblies will result in more body roll which 
will decrease control of the aero platform in high speed corners and 
potentially lead to a loss in aero efficiency. The arms can be set to 
six positions, ranging from D1 (softest) to D6 (stiffest).
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will 
increase slip in the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce the 
slip. Toe-out will decrease straight-line stability but will increase 
turn-in responsiveness. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in 
responsiveness but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the 
brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock 
the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite 
and increase brake line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake 
bias forward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master 
cylinder options are available ranging from 15.9 mm / 0.626” (highest 
line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase 
brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward 
and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder 
options are available ranging from 15.9 mm / 0.626” (highest line 
pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup. 
ENDURANCE LIGHT PACKAGE
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
NIGHT LED STRIP COLOR
Changes the colour of the LED light strips on the roof of the car.
CENTER FRONT SPLITTER HEIGHT
The front splitter ground clearance is shown in the garage. This is 
not directly adjustable but will change based on other settings in the 
garage. There are no tech-inspection checks on this value and it only 
serves as a reference for the car’s attitude under static conditions.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR ADJUSTMENTS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. 
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. It is 
important to note that differing combinations of master cylinder size 
will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is because 
increasing or reducing the split in master cylinder size difference 
between front and rear axles will produce an inherent forward or 
rearward bias in brake line pressure. 
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. The ABS system features 12 
positions divided into three groups to suit varying track conditions, 
with lower values providing less assistance and higher values 
providing more assistance to prevent brake lockup. Settings 1-5 
are for wet-weather conditions with setting 1 suitable for heavy 
rain and setting 5 good for lighter rain. Settings 7-11 are for dry 
conditions on slick tires with reduced support as the setting value 
increases. Setting 12 disables the system completely.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. 12 positions are available. Settings 1-11 range from least 
intervention/sensitivity (position 11) through to highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 1). Position 12 disables the traction control 
completely. Position 8 is the recommended baseline setting. More 
intervention will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but 
can reduce overall performance if the traction control is cutting 
engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration.
DASH DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently displayed dash page between two available 
options. Page 1 displays engine and gearbox temperatures while 
page 2 displays tire pressures and temperatures. 
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car. 
NOSE WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting on the 
front corners. This cannot be adjusted per say but is influenced 
by the total fuel load carried. As fuel burns (or less starting fuel is 
specified) the nose weight of the car will increase due to the fuel 
tank location. This will tend to push the overall balance towards 
understeer. As such, this reference item can be useful in establishing 
how much of an adjustment to the setup is required when changing 
fuel load. 

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LEFT / RIGHT FRONT
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well as 
decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension. 
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. 
Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control; however, they will 
also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a 
loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer springs 
will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs 
in these situations will result in increased overall performance. 
Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch control of 
the platform and ARB changes should be considered when altering 
corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to rear roll 
stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness 
the ARB stiffness (either via blade or diameter depending on the size 
of the corner spring change) should be increased to retain the same 
roll stiffness as previously. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to 
return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring 
rate change.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Increasing front camber values 
will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to high 
speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate. 

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LEFT / RIGHT REAR
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well 
as increase overall downforce (to a point) and will allow for more 
weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but 
reduce overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer across 
the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both 
mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear 
ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear 
corner springs for optimal performance.
BUMP RUBBER GAP
The distance the damper will travel before engaging the bump 
rubber. This will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide 
better aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-
speed corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and 
over rough surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber 
sooner and higher values will delay engagement to allow for a more 
compliant suspension.
SPRING RATE
Similar to at the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller 
variance in ride height between high and low load cases and will 
produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved 
platform control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be 
particularly prominent when exiting slow speed corners with 
aggressive throttle application. Stiffer springs will tend to react 
poorly during these instances especially so on rough tracks which 
will result in significant traction loss. Spring stiffness should be 
matched to the needs of the racetrack and set such that the 
handling balance is consistent between high and low speed 
cornering. As an example case, a car which suffers from high speed 
understeer but low speed oversteer could benefit from an increase 
in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static rear height 
which will reduce rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering 
while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height in high 
speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and 
reduce understeer. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return 
the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative to 
the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires are 
25 mm (~1”) wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear 
tires must also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where 
benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance. 
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will 
result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in response 
during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided 
if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce straight line 
speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that the values 
are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at the front. 
This means that individual values on the rear wheels are twice as 
powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the car when 
the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised to keep 
the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or asymmetric 
handling behavior; however, heavily asymmetric tracks such as 
Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in performance from running 
asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other setup parameters. 

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into 
the world. 
RARB RATES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can 
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll stiffness 
of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing 
mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the car to “take a 
set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing the ARB 
assembly stiffness will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body 
roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer. This can result in a less-
responsive feel from the rear especially in transient movements, but 
grip across the rear axle will increase. 7 configurations of ARB arms 
are available and range from D1 (softest) to D7 (stiffest).
DIFFERENTIAL
DIFF FRICTION PLATES
The number of clutch faces affect how much overall force is applied 
to keep the differential locked. Treated as a multiplier, adding more 
faces produces increasingly more locking force but has no impact 
around zero input torque. This can be considered to be a coarse 
adjustment to the differential and is most impactful under true coast 
and wide open throttle situations. 
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.
WING ANGLE
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. In 
this case 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) 
while 11 is maximum damping (most resistance to compression). 
Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a 
faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car during transient 
movements such as braking and direction change with increased 
damping usually providing an increase in turn-in response but 
a reduction in overall grip in the context of front dampers.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. 11 is maximum damping 
while 0 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When 
tuning for handling, higher front low speed rebound can increase 
on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce nose lift) while 
lower values will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce 
understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound 
can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off 
of the track surface instead of staying in contact. 11 is maximum 
damping (most resistant to extension) while 0 is minimum damping 
(least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in result 
to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results 
in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations if set 
improperly. 11 is maximum damping while 0 is minimum damping.
DAMPERS
FRONT DAMPERS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR DAMPERS
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. In 
this case 0 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) 
while 11 is maximum damping (most resistance to compression). 
Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a 
faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car during transient 
movements such as braking and direction change with increased 
damping usually increasing the cars tendency to understeer on 
throttle application.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance 
while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less high 
speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical 
grip at the expense of platform control. 11 is maximum damping while 
0 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. As 
at the front, high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform 
control for aerodynamic performance and overall chassis response 
but it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow 
in rebounding as this can result in the tire losing complete contact 
with the track surface. Provided this is avoided,, an increase in 
rebound stiffness can help to ‘slow down’ the change in pitch of 
the car as the brakes are applied, increasing braking stability and 
off-throttle mechanical understeer. 11 is maximum damping (most 
resistant to extension) while 0 is minimum damping (least resistance 
to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps 
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more 
easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling in result 
to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results 
in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations if set 
improperly. 11 is maximum damping while 0 is minimum damping.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require 
adjustment. This is performed by using the spring perch offsets 
at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will reduce the ride 
height while left clicks (negative) will increase the ride height. 
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups.
Baseline is a 100% fuel load setup which is intended solely for 
loading the car at every possible track. As such, this setup should 
always pass tech inspection at every fuel load and track but will not 
provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended 
to start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating 
the other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track 
may benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum 
speed reached. 
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Sebring International Raceway High
Daytona International Speedway Low/Medium Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Sonoma Raceway High
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Hungaroring High Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Lime Rock Park High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition. 
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series and 
is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations.
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
• Rear Wing Angle: +9
• Dynamic Front Ride Height: 40.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
• Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 67.5 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
• Rear Wing Angle: -1
• Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
• Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1.2 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +3.6 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +1.2 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -3.6 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 2020 | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Two adjustment options are available for the differential. 
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on 
throttle oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces 
and kerb strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, 
less off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.