--- PAGE 1 ---

1
MINI STOCK
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Config » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 9
 Front » 10
Chassis » 10
Tires » 9 
 Front Corners » 11 
 Rear Corners » 12
 Rear » 12
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Mini Stock! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your support 
and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we hope 
that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
MINI STOCK | TECH SPECS
STRUT FRONT, 4-LINK REAR SUSPENSION
INLINE 4-CYLINDER 2V OHC
LENGTH
4521 mm
178 in
WIDTH
1829 mm
72 in
DISPLACEMENT
2.3 Liters
140 CID
TORQUE
200 lb-ft
260 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8500 RPM 
POWER
250 bhp
195 kW
WHEELBASE
2540 mm
100 in
DRY WEIGHT
975 kg
2150 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1067 kg
2350 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear and give it a bit of throttle 
to get underway. The Micro Sprints have five forward gears and a 
reverse gear but doesn’t require a clutch for upshifts or downshifts, 
with upshifting requiring a quick lift off the throttle and downshifting 
requiring a small blip of throttle. 
MINI STOCK | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to
become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have 
provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced by
these cars. To access the baseline setups, simply open the
Garage, click iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup
for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which a 
dedicated baseline setup is not included, you may select a setup
for a similar track to use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs. If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the 
changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
MINI STOCK | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver
or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side
of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage 
as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
MINI STOCK | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Mini Stock features three analog gauges with a shift light, from left to right:
Water Temperature Displays the temperature of the water in the engine coolant system, in °F
Tachometer Displays Engine RPM in 1000 rpm increments.
Oil Pressure Displays the pressure in the engine oil system in Pounds-per-Square Inch
Shift Light
A shift light is on the far right of the dash that will light up when the
engine is at the ideal RPM for upshifting.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
MINI STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
MINI STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will
build more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building 
more pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be 
crucial for optimizing tire performance.
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TIRES 
TIRE DATA
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a
new tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are 
good for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to 
be replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.
STAGGER 
Stagger is the difference in circumference of the left- and right-side 
tires with both front and rear stagger available as an adjustment 
on this car. Increasing the front stagger will increase the size of 
the right-front tire and add understeer on deceleration and turn-in. 
Increasing the rear stagger will increase the size of the right-rear
tire and add oversteer through the center and on throttle out of
the corner. Stagger can be set independently between front and
rear to suit various driving styles. For road courses, stagger will 
default and lock to zero.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
MINI STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross Weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as ARB preload to a small extent. For an oval
car, Cross Weight is one of the most influential settings for grip
level while the vehicle is in a turn. Higher Cross Weight values will 
add weight to the left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry
and helping drive-off on corner exit. Lower Cross-Weight values
will help the vehicle rotate and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent 
speed from being lost, however too low can result in unstable entry 
and exit. For this vehicle, excessively high crossweight value can 
also lead to left-front tire lockups under braking due to reduced load 
on the left-front wheel.
LEFT ARB END CLEARANCE
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay 
bar engagement or apply a static load to the bar. This adjustment 
directly affects the bar’s Preload, outlined below. When “Attach
Left Side” is unchecked, having this value positive will require a
small amount of front-end travel before the bar is engaged.
This can be used to reduce bar load and keep the front end lower
on the straights.
ATTACH LEFT SIDE
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments, 
attach and re-set End Clearance & Preload when done.
ARB PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
SKIRT CLEARANCE
Distance from the ground to the bottom of the front valence, or skirt. 
This is a tech inspection measurement and must clear a minimum 
height to pass tech.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
MINI STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Shock Collar Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Front 
heights are measured at the bottom of the chassis frame rail just 
behind the front wheel wells. Since these values are measured to a 
specific reference point on the car, these values may not necessarily 
reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable 
value for the height of the car off of the race track at static values.
SPRING PERCH
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this
setting applies a preload to the spring under static conditions.
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a
force per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for
maintaining ride height and a good attitude under changing
wheel loads, stiffer springs will maintain the car’s attitude better 
while sacrificing mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with
bumps better and increase mechanical grip, however this could 
cause the chassis to pitch and roll too much, causing the car to
feel slow to respond to driver inputs.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Higher camber angles will increase the cornering force 
generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal 
grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive camber values 
can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly 
reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance between life 
and performance. For ovals, set the left side positive and the right 
side negative. For road courses, all four wheels should be set with 
negative camber.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative
to the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front
of the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel,
and negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is 
farther away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel.
More net toe-out will destabilize the car in a straight line and help 
with turn-in but increases slip angle on the front wheels and can
risk over-slipping the front tires, which can result in sudden 
understeer when cornering.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
MINI STOCK | USER MANUAL
MINI STOCK | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Shock Collar Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis.
Since these values are measured to a specific reference point
on the car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s 
ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the
height of the car off of the race track at static values.
SPRING PERCH
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this
setting applies a preload to the spring under static conditions.
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force per 
unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride height 
and chassis attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer springs 
control the chassis attitude better (less roll or pitch change) which is 
good for alignment control, but mechanical grip is often better with 
softer springs which allow for more track surface compliance.
REAR
FUEL FILL TO
The Fuel Fill To setting alters the amount of fuel in the fuel tank
when the car leaves the garage. Most races will be shorter than 
what a full tank is capable of, so it is important to get a good fuel 
reading in practice and carry no more fuel than is necessary for a 
race to keep overall vehicle weight low.
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion and 
the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed.