--- PAGE 1 ---

1
NASCAR TRUCKS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 10
 Splitter Height » 19
 Rear Ride Heights & Rear Springs » 20
 Crossweight » 20
 Adjusting for Weather and Time-of-Day » 20
 Final Considerations » 20
 Front » 11
Chassis » 11
Tires & Aero » 10 
Ride Heights & Attitude » 19 
 Front ARB » 12
 Front Corners » 13 
 Rear » 17
 Rear Corners » 15
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
 SETUP & DRIVING TIPS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Dashboard and Failure Lights» 7
 Tachometer» 8

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of a NASCAR Truck Series vehicle! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Why race pick-up trucks? For starters, they’re arguably the most popular automotive vehicle in America, 
with upwards of 2 million new pickups sold every year in the United States. And they’re a blast to race, 
particularly the trucks of the NASCAR Truck Series. With 625 horsepower pushing their 3450 pounds 
around super speedways, ovals, short tracks and the occasional road course, NASCAR’s trucks are fun to 
watch and challenging to drive.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new truck, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
NASCAR TRUCKS | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT FRONT 
LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM REAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
4877 mm
192 in
WIDTH
1905 mm
75 in
WHEELBASE
2845 mm
110 in
DRY WEIGHT
1510 kg
3330 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1633 kg
3600 lbs
TORQUE
520 lb-ft
705 Nm
POWER
680 bhp
507 kW
DISPLACEMENT
5.86 Liters
358 cid
RPM LIMIT
8000

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. 
Give it a bit of throttle and ease off the clutch pedal to get 
underway. This car uses an h-pattern transmission, but only 
requires the clutch pedal to get the car rolling and when coming 
to a stop in gear. To upshift, simply let off the throttle and select 
the next higher gear. To downshift, give the throttle a blip while 
selecting the next lower gear. Upshifting is recommended when 
NASCAR TRUCKS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
the tachometer is fully illuminated in red at high RPM. If you 
downshift too early, or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the 
wheel speed and engine speed will be mismatched, leading to 
wheel hop at the rear and a possible spin.
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper 
understanding of the chassis setup adjustments available in the 
garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to 
your preference. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number of 
laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs.
Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. For 
example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely will not 
pass at Bristol.
NASCAR TRUCKS | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. To access all of your personally 
saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. If 
you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in a 
session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to do 
so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | DASH PAGES
DASHBOARD
The NASCAR TRUCKS are all equipped with the Spek Pro gauge system, which combines easy-to-read backlit gauges, 
warning lights, shift light, and a visual Pit Road Speed helper all into a very intuitive system. 
DASHBOARD OVERVIEW & FAILURE LIGHTS
While the gauges for each manufacturer are laid out differently, all three trucks feature the same gauges and the same 
functionality.
FORD F-150
Each Truck features a large tachometer in the center with five accessory gauges arranged across the dashboard. These five 
gauges consist of:
Water Temp Displays the temperature, in °F, of the water in the engine coolant system
Oil Temp Displays the temperature, in °F, of the engine oil
Oil Pressure Displays the pressure, in psi, of the engine oil flowing through the oil system
Fuel Pressure Displays the fuel pressure, in psi, of the fuel flowing to the carburetor
Volt Displays the voltage of the battery
Under normal operating conditions, these gauges will all display with a white backlight. Whenever a gauge is displaying a value that 
is dangerous to the engine, they will begin alternating between their normal color and red, such as the Oil Pressure gauge pictured 
below:
LOW OIL PRESSURE WARNING
TOYOTA TUNDRA CHEVROLET SILVERADO

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
TACHOMETER
NASCAR TRUCKS | DASH PAGES
NASCAR does not allow the use of either a speedometer or a pit speed limiter, thus the pit road speed limit can only be followed by 
running a specific RPM in a given gear. To help the driver maintain proper pit road speed without having to look at the tachometer, 
the Spek Pro tachometer features Pit Speed lights, which illuminate either yellow, green, or red to show whether the vehicle is 
traveling too slowly or speeding on pit road. These lights are accurate to a track’s pit road speed limit only when the transmission 
is in 2nd Gear, and are set automatically when loading a track in the sim.
PIT SPEED INDICATOR
If the vehicle is below the pit road speed limit, the tachometer will illuminate the 
speed lights in yellow, with 1 light being farthest from pit road speed and all 7 being 
moderately slower than the pit road speed limit, usually just a few miles-per-hour 
slower than the limit.
APPROACHING PIT SPEED LIMIT
As the vehicle’s speed approaches the pit road speed limit (but is not exceeding the 
speed limit), the pit lights will turn green, with 1 green light being the farthest from 
the pit road speed limit and 6 lights being just underneath the pit road speed limit.
AT PIT SPEED LIMIT
When the vehicle is traveling at the pit road speed limit, the 7th light will illuminate in 
green and the backlight color will change to green, illuminating the entire gauge with 
a green light.
EXCEEDING PIT SPEED LIMIT
When the pit road speed limit is exceeded, the entire gauge backlight will turn red 
and the speed lights will also change from green to red. Similar to the other modes, 1 
red light is just above pit road speed limit and each additional light signals the vehicle 
is exceeding the speed limit. If the vehicle continues accelerating after the 7th red 
light, all speed lights will turn off and the backlight will return to its standard color.
SHIFT LIGHT
The tachometer is also equipped with a Shift Light mode, which turns the gauge 
backlight to red. This is distinguishable from the pit road speeding mode by the speed 
lights being off, and will be enabled just before the engine reaches the rev limiter.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce heat buildup, but will provide better
grip with higher loads and higher speeds. Lower pressures will 
increase heat buildup, but will provide better grip at lower loads
and lower speeds. Cold pressures should be set to track 
characteristics for optimum performance.
HOT PRESSURES
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold 
and Hot pressures. On left-turn ovals, the right-front tire should 
always see the highest buildup on a balanced car, while the left
sides should be roughly the same, but it is important to monitor 
the hot pressures after a run and adjust accordingly. Ideally, the 
difference in hot pressures on one side of the car should be roughly 
equal to the difference between cold pressures after a longer run.
TIRES
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURE
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car 
has returned from the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a 
tire is doing on-track is reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these 
values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance.
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work 
done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful 
for analyzing the wheel alignment while on track. These values are 
measured in three zones across the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BALLAST FORWARD
To meet minimum weight requirements, tungsten blocks are installed 
within the lower frame rails on the chassis. These blocks can be 
moved fore and aft in the chassis, directly influencing the car’s Nose 
Weight value. The Ballast Forward value is simply a measurement of 
the location of these tungsten blocks relative to a reference point in 
the frame rail. Moving ballast forward in the car raises Nose Weight, 
moving it rearward reduces Nose Weight.
NOSE WEIGHT 
The vehicle’s Nose Weight is the percentage of total vehicle weight 
on the front tires, directly adjustable through the Ballast Forward 
adjustment. Nose Weight represents a rough approximation of the 
longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has a direct 
influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle. Higher Nose 
Weight values result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, good for 
low-grip tracks and situations where the vehicle is set up with extra 
front downforce. Conversely, lower Nose Weight values are good for 
high-grip tracks and configurations with high rear downforce levels. 
Smaller tracks will also see benefits from lower Nose Weight values, 
as it will allow the rear of the vehicle to rotate easier.
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering 
response is in the vehicle’s steering box. This ratio can be thought 
of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one degree 
of turn on the steering box output shaft. For example, a 12:1 steering 
ratio will require 12° of steering input to rotate the steering output 
shaft 1° . A steering box with a lower ratio will feel more responsive 
to steering inputs and will require less steering input to reach the 
amount needed to navigate a corner. A steering box with a higher 
ratio will feel less responsive and will require more steering input to 
reach the amount needed to navigate a corner.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as Front ARB preload and, to a very small
extent, the Truck Arm Preload. For an oval car, Cross Weight is
one of the most influential settings for grip level while the vehicle
is in a turn. Higher Cross Weight values will add weight to the
left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry and helping drive-off 
on corner exit. Lower Cross-Weight values will help the vehicle rotate 
and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent speed from being lost, 
however too low can result in unstable entry and exit. Due to this 
vehicle’s design with a Coil-Bind front suspension, Cross Weight is
a major consideration for front end suspension configuration.
See the section below for more information.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism off-
center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to compensate 
for chassis settings which place the wheel off center and is primarily 
a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure being 
sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force to
the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a
given situation.
FRONT ARB
TAPE CONFIGURATION
The radiator grille on the front bumper can be run in one of two 
configurations: Race and Qualifying. The Qualifying configuration will 
block off the grille entirely, increasing downforce and reducing drag, 
but preventing air from reaching the engine’s radiator and increasing 
engine temperatures considerably. This increases aerodynamic 
performance but risks an engine failure after only a few laps.
The Race configuration opens up a portion of the grille to allow air
to cool the engine with a slight loss in aerodynamic performance.
DIAMETER
The Front Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the roll 
stiffness of the front suspension. Increasing the diameter of the
ARB will result in a higher roll stiffness on the front suspension, 
helping to keep the chassis flat relative to the racing surface,
but can also increase understeer. While not absolutely necessary,
a large bar is typically desired (>2.00”) to maintain bind in both
front springs throughout the corner. For conventional setups a 
smaller bar can be used.
ARM ASYMMETRY
The difference in length between the left and right sway bar arms 
can be altered via the Arm Asymmetry settings. The “None” setting 
will set the two arms at equal length, while increasing the setting will 
increase the difference in length of the two arms. This can be used 
to produce multiple effects, primarily serving to produce a higher 
anti-roll force on the right-front suspension than on the left-front, 
effectively rolling the chassis to the left when under load.
This can be used to correct excessive roll without increasing the
ARB diameter. A knock-on effect of asymmetry is a slight increase
in front end heave stiffness, or resistance to vertical travel.
Since the two different lengths of arms cause the bar to be twisted 
at different rates, vertical travel will load the ARB, possibly leading
to higher front ride heights on straights.
LINK SLACK
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay bar 
engagement or apply a static load to the bar. The linkage itself is
a slider-type linkage, and any positive link slack will require the
left-front wheel to travel prior to the ARB experiencing any load.
This adjustment directly affects the bar’s Preload, outlined below.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
COIL BINDING & “PIGTAIL ” SPRINGS
The front suspension for the NASCAR Trucks emulates “pigtail”-
style coil-bind springs. Coil-binding is when the coils in a spring are 
all in contact with each other, thus creating a “solid” suspension 
element. Instead of binding the full spring (coils are in contact all the 
way around the spring), a “Pigtail” spring binds only one side of the 
spring using a specially-shaped lower spring perch to compress only 
one side of the spring. This produces both a very soft initial rate and 
allows for a very stiff rate at full travel, providing a low dynamic ride 
height, a more compliant suspension when compared to a traditional 
coil-bind setup, and excellent aerodynamic platform control at the 
low heights.
This effect is created with a two-stage, progressive front spring rate. 
When the chassis is up above the minimum ride heights the springs 
will be very soft, around 200 lb/in. As the suspension travels while 
on track from building aerodynamic loads the springs will eventually 
bind and transition to a much stiffer second rate, selected in the 
garage. The point where this transition happens is controlled by the 
Spring Angle setting, described in more detail in its own section. For 
more information on tuning front ride heights with this suspension 
system, see the “Setup Tips” section at the end of this guide.
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Front 
heights are measured at the bottom of the chassis frame rail 
just behind the wheel well and can be roughly identified via the 
skirt rivets at the bottom of the door. Since these values are 
measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but 
instead provide a reliable value for the height of the car off of 
the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, however this could cause the chassis 
to pitch and roll too much, hurting aerodynamic performance at 
faster tracks

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
SPRING ANGLE
Spring angle changes the position of the lower spring perch within 
the lower control arm spring bucket. This value rotates the spring 
perch around the spring’s center axis, relocating the highest point 
of the perch farther inboard or outboard to change how the spring 
binds in travel and the spring rate transitions from the softer initial 
rate to the rate selected in the Spring Rate option. Higher angle 
values will reduce the amount of suspension travel necessary to 
reach the spring rate transition while lower values will increase the 
amount of travel necessary.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.
HS COMPRESSION SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the
high- and low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking.
Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower
values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values 
can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel 
being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can 
lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the 
track surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will result 
in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for smoother 
surfaces.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center
of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel
is closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than
the bottom. Greater camber angles will increase the cornering
force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of 
longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking.
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so itis important to find a 
balance between life and performance. For ovals, set the left side 
positive and the right side negative. For road courses, all four
wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward 
(negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel 
but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as adding 
straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front will cause 
the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. On the front, 
toe-out is generally preferred. More toe-out typically provides better 
turn in and straight line stability, but at the cost of increased tire 
temperature and wear.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing rear ride height will increase rear downforce as well as 
slightly increasing overall downforce and drag. Conversely, reducing 
rear ride height will reduce rear downforce and reduce overall 
downforce and reduce drag.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs
(left and right, for example) or with all four spring preload 
adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight changes while 
adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or pitch change) 
which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical 
grip is often better with softer springs which allow for more track 
surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control. For ovals, a 
softer left-rear spring (relative to the right-rear) is desired to prevent 
the dynamic cross from being too high in the corners, which will 
result in a balance shift towards understeer through a run.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMPRESSION SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the high- and 
low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking.
Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values 
will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can 
better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will result 
in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for smoother 
surfaces.
TOE-IN
Rear toe in this vehicle serves to introduce “Skew”, where the 
vehicle travels through the air with a non-zero amount of yaw 
relative to the direction of airflow, producing Sideforce. Setting the 
right-rear to a negative value and the left-rear to a positive value 
will add positive Skew, decreasing crossweight and shifting aero 
balance forward slightly. Setting the right-rear to a positive value 
and left-rear to a negative value will add negative Skew, reducing 
sideforce and centering the rear spoiler behind the greenhouse 
for some toe settings. Positive skew is useful at large short tracks 
and intermediate tracks, while negative skew will reduce drag for 
superspeedways and aid in drive-off for smaller short tracks.
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The rear axle is held in place laterally via a Track Bar, mounted to
the left side of the rear axle housing and to the chassis frame on
the right side. Overall height of the track bar dictates roll center 
location for the rear suspension and thus affects roll stiffness, with
a higher track bar increasing rear roll stiffness and shifting the 
chassis balance to oversteer. Lower track bar settings will increase 
lateral traction due to a reduction in roll stiffness and roll center 
height. The track bar end heights can also be set to different values,
known as “rake” or “split”. A positive track bar rake, with the
right-side mounted higher, will increase oversteer on corner exit, as 
well as adding skew through vertical travel. Negative track bar rake 
will increase traction on corner exit, but will remove skew through 
vertical travel.
TRUCK ARM MOUNT
The rear axle is held in place longitudinally with two truck arms, 
mounted to the bottom of the chassis underneath the driver 
compartment. The forward mounts can be adjusted up and down, 
resulting in various anti-squat and rear-steer configurations.
Higher truck arm mounts will reduce rear end grip, increase rear 
steer, add anti-squat, and reduce wheel hop under heavy braking. 
Lower truck arm mounts will increase rear end bite, decrease rear 
steer, reduce anti-squat, and increase the chances of wheel hop 
under heavy braking.
TRUCK ARM PRELOAD
Due to the truck arm mounting design on the rear axle, most chassis 
adjustments will result in the truck arms applying a torque to the 
rear axle housing. This preload has an extremely small effect on 
the chassis balance, but can be removed to eliminate any potential 
issues. It is good practice to reset this value to as close to zero as 
possible after making adjustments.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
REAR
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. For all ovals with NASCAR-sanctioned 
events, this value is either locked to one ratio or there is a choice of 
two ratios. Higher number values produce better acceleration but 
reduce top speed, lower number values reduce acceleration
but result in a higher top speed.
ARB DIAMETER
The Rear Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the roll 
stiffness of the rear suspension. Increasing the diameter of the ARB 
will result in a higher roll stiffness on the rear suspension, increasing 
oversteer, while reducing the ARB diameter will reduce roll stiffness 
and increase understeer. A rear ARB is only available at Road 
Courses and has no effect on the chassis on ovals.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle
is in the garage. Since a rear ARB is only available at Road
Course circuits, it is best to keep this value as close to zero as 
possible when using a rear ARB to prevent asymmetric handling 
issues. When the rear ARB is not in use, this setting has no effect
on the chassis.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done.
ARB PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done. This option 
will completely detach the bar and keep it from being loaded while 
on track, if desired.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
SETUP & DRIVING TIPS
The NASCAR Trucks can produce some of the best racing on the oval side of iRacing’s service, but as with every 
car the Trucks have their own traits and personality. With a high amount of engine power and some of the highest 
downforce numbers of all the oval content they are very easy to drive but require a high level of precision and skill 
to drive quickly.
Aerodynamic performance is just under what is necessary to be able to run wide-open at many tracks, so a keen 
sense of how much grip is available and skillful throttle modulation is key to fast lap times. Generally, in race 
trim, it’s often going to be faster to crack the throttle slightly on entry and let the truck drive itself into the corner 
than to stay wide open and fight the front tires to the line you want to run. In Qualifying trim a wide-open lap is 
attainable, but it can be “sketchy”, as the real drivers say.
NASCAR TRUCKS | SETUP & DRIVING TIPS 

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | SETUP & DRIVING TIPS 
SPLITTER HEIGHT
The optimum splitter height, and minimum ideal height, is around 0.25” or just above 6mm, measured via the telemetry channel 
CFSRrideheight. This height sensor is placed on the leading edge of the splitter along the centerline and displays the ground clearance to the 
front of the truck. As this height is reduced, overall downforce will increase and aero balance will shift forward slightly. If the splitter is allowed 
to pass below the minimum height of 0.25”, an aerodynamic stall will occur and overall downforce will drop significantly. Further, a risk of 
ground contact from the splitter will occur, unloading the front tires and inducing heavy understeer.
Tuning the splitter height is relatively a relatively simple process and can be done in three steps:
-Spring Rate selection
-Spring Angle setting
-Spring Perch Offset adjustment
Selecting spring rates is going to come down to personal preference and track characteristics. Tracks with high loads or very smooth surfaces 
can use very stiff spring rates, while rougher tracks or tracks with lower cornering speeds may see better performance with slightly softer 
spring rates. Further, some drivers may prefer one spring stiffer than the other or both the same rate, but this will come down to testing 
configurations and finding which you like the best.
Pigtail-style coil bind springs only bind one half of the spring while the other half is left to act as a working spring. The Spring Angle setting 
rotates the lower spring perch within the lower control arm spring bucket to change how far inboard the bound half of the spring is on the 
suspension, changing how much suspension travel is available before the Spring Rate chosen in the previous step takes over. Increasing the 
Angle value will reduce suspension travel and cause the splitter to run higher while reducing the angle will allow more travel before the spring 
rate transition and lower the splitter. Use this Spring Angle value to get the splitter as close to the target value as you can, then move to the 
Spring Perch Offsets.
Since the Pigtail springs work entirely within the main spring, the Spring Perch Offset values can be used to fine-tune the front-end ride 
heights once the height has been roughed-in with the Spring Angle. Increasing the Spring Perch Offset values (right clicks in the garage) will 
lower the static ride height and lower the splitter height when loaded in the corner. Conversely, decreasing the values (left-clicks) will raise the 
front of the car and the splitter’s dynamic height in the corner. If large Spring Perch Offset changes are needed, it’s usually best to go back to 
the Spring Angle and change that value instead of large Perch changes.
REAR RIDE HEIGHTS & REAR SPRINGS
Rear ride heights are best run in a range of heights for most situations. The trucks will generate the most downforce when the rear end 
between around 3.9” and 4.3” (100-110mm). Running the rear higher than this range will add very little downforce but a lot of drag and is not 
recommended. Running lower than this range can reduce drag and downforce for tracks with the highest top speeds but can risk damaging 
the underside of the car.
Choosing rear spring rates is much simpler than choosing front spring rates, as the rears are purely linear and each spring has its own specific 
purpose. The simplest way to approach rear springs is to set the Right-Rear spring for the target rear height and adjust the Left-Rear spring for 
handling and roll, with the Right-Rear spring generally being a few times stiffer than the Left-Rear. Generally you will want the stiffest Right-
Rear spring spring you can handle and then fine-tune the dynamic height with the Perches. For the Left-Rear, softening the spring will roll the 
truck to the left and free the chassis up through the corner while stiffening the spring will raise the left side of the chassis and tighten the car 
through the corner.
RIDE HEIGHTS & ATTITUDE
As with all oval cars, the setup process involves hitting predetermined height targets in the corners and finding a way to keep the 
chassis and body in that position as long and as consistently as possible. Your targets for chassis setup will be a minimum splitter 
height and a rear height range.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
NASCAR TRUCKS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR TRUCKS | SETUP & DRIVING TIPS 
CROSSWEIGHT
One of the most important settings in the garage is the crossweight, or the percentage of the chassis’ total weight on the Right-Front and Left 
Rear as a percentage. This value is a major factor in the mechanical handling balance and how the car will get into and out of the corner. 
To adjust crossweight without introducing other issues, follow these steps:
 •Note the current Front ARB Preload and disconnect the bar. Once disconnected, increase the Link Slack option to a large positive 
 value, which will prevent the bar from influencing other adjustments while disconnected.
 -If the bar has a large amount of preload this may cause the ride heights to move into illegal ranges. This is okay, as they 
 should return to legal ranges when the bar is reattached and loaded.
 •Using the Spring Perch Offsets, adjust the crossweight by making the following changes:
 -Increase Crossweight
 •Right Rear - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
 •Left Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
 •Left Front - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
 •Right Front - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
 -Decrease Crossweight
 •Right Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
 •Left Rear - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
 •Left Front - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
 •Right Front - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
 •If you’re new to the setup process, keep these adjustments to one or two clicks at a time and watch what happens to the chassis.
 If you’re comfortable with the adjustments, multiple clicks (Shift-Click is equal to 5 clicks) can be made as long as you keep track
 of everything that’s changing. Always pay attention to the ARB preload to make sure it stays at zero during crossweight 
 adjustments. If it registers a value, simply adjust the Link Slack to remove the preload and continue with weight adjustments.
 •Once the desired crossweight change has been made, reattach the ARB and preload the bar to what it was initially. Following these 
 steps you should now have a change in crossweight with almost no change in ride heights or alignment!
Deciding on a crossweight adjustment is usually fairly simple, it will come down to how the car is behaving through the center and on throttle 
application. If the car understeers through the center or has too much rear traction on throttle causing understeer on exit, decrease the 
crossweight. If the car oversteers through the center or the rear tires spin too easily on initial throttle, increase the crossweight.
It is also very important to focus on crossweight adjustments progressively through the corner: Start with entry and work on the car around 
the corner. It’s very easy to fall into the trap where the rear of the car loses grip on exit and the driver wants more crossweight to correct that, 
when the root cause is understeer through the center of the corner. This understeer will result in the driver applying too much steering input 
and over-slipping the front tires, which “bite” as steering is removed through corner exit and causing the rear to lose traction. In this situation, 
adding crossweight will make the center of the corner worse and potentially make the car “looser” on exit. This pitfall can be avoided by 
looking at the tire temperatures screen (after a steady run without spins) and noting whether the temperatures show hotter on the RF than the 
RR tire, an indication that the car is understeering and the crossweight needs to be reduced. This will often, counter-intuitively, tighten the car 
on exit and free the car up through the center.
ADJUSTING FOR WEATHER AND TIME-OF-DAY
Varying weather conditions and race start times can greatly affect the amount of grip available from the track surface. Hotter track 
temperatures will produce less grip and often cause the car to oversteer, especially on throttle, while cooler tracks will increase grip and shift 
the balance towards understeer. To correct for weather and track temperature changes, the only adjustment needed is crossweight: Increase 
crossweight for warmer temperatures, decrease it for cooler temperatures.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS
Once these areas of the setup are complete you can move onto finer details like shocks and alignments. These settings will be dependent on 
the spring package and track characteristics, so don’t be afraid to test various settings to see what works for you. The Fixed setups provided 
with the car are close to where the car would like to be run as far as heights and weight balance, but are tuned more towards mild understeer 
to make the car more approachable. Keep it simple, make small adjustments, and you should be able to get wherever you want to go!