--- PAGE 1 ---

1
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 11
 Front » 12
Chassis » 12
Tires & Aero » 11 
 Front ARB » 13
 Front Corners » 14 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Page 1 » 7
 Page 2 » 8
 Page 3 » 9

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the NASCAR NextGen Race Car! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car.
The seventh generation of NASCAR’s Cup Series car aims to put the “stock” back in “Stock Car”, with 
multiple changes to bring the cars more in-line with the cars you see on the road. The Chevrolet Camaro 
ZL1, Toyota Camry, and Ford Mustang now feature symmetrical, composite bodies with less emphasis 
on sideforce and downforce to make the racing closer than ever before. Under the hood, the 650hp 
engine delivers power to the track through an all-new 5-speed sequential gearbox and, for the first time 
in NASCAR’s history, the NextGen car features four-wheel independent suspension with coil-over shocks.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | TECH SPECS
FRONT AND REAR INDEPENDANT, 
DOUBLE-WISHBONE SUSPENSION
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
4902 mm
193 in
WIDTH
1994 mm
78 in
WHEELBASE
2794 mm
110 in
DRY WEIGHT
1456 kg
3210 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1601 kg
3530 lbs
OVALS OVER 1 MILE
TORQUE
470 lb-ft
637 Nm
POWER
650 bhp
485 kW
SHORT TRACKS / RC
TORQUE
400 lb-ft
542 Nm
POWER
550 bhp
410 kW
DISPLACEMENT
5.86 Liters
358 cid
RPM LIMIT
9100

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. 
Give it a bit of throttle and ease off the clutch pedal to get 
underway. Unlike previous NASCAR Race Cars that used H-pattern 
transmissions, the NextGen cars use a 5-speed sequential gearbox. 
Shifting is completely clutchless, with upshifts not requiring any 
throttle blip to move to the next gear. 
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Downshifting is as simple as pressing the shifter to select the next 
lower gear and blipping the throttle. Upshifting is recommended 
when the RPM gauge on the dash illuminates in red, usually 
around 9000rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as
your baseline. 
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits
your needs.
Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. For 
example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely will not 
pass at Bristol.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes.
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a 
setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right 
side of the garage as well. 
To save your setup for reference later, click the “Export” button on 
the right side of the garage and save the file. This will produce an 
HTML file with all of the settings for that setup that can be opened 
at any time and viewed in a web browser.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
Page 1 displays all information in a digital numerical format with a 
bar-style tachometer. The top row displays, from left to right, Oil 
Pressure, previous Lap Time, Engine RPM, and Oil Temperature.
The second row, from left to right, displays engine Water Pressure, 
Fuel Pressure, Battery Voltage, and Water Temperature.
For pressures and temperatures, the units displayed will follow 
the setting in the setup garage: Pounds per Square Inch (PSI) and 
Degrees Fahrenheit for Imperial units, Bar and Degrees Celsius for 
Metric units. Across the very bottom of the dash is a horizontal bar-
style tachometer displaying Engine RPM. A gear indicator is located 
between the Voltmeter and the Water Temperature values.
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The NASCAR Next Gen Cars feature a digital display integrated into the dash. 
Below the numerical displays are the pit road speed lights, a 
graphical representation of the engine RPM and are tuned to display 
proper pit road speed while in 2nd gear. When the vehicle’s speed is 
lower than pit road speed, the lights will be illuminated in an
orange-yellow color.
As vehicle speed increases to the pit road speed limit, these lights 
will change to a green color. When the vehicle is at the pit road 
speed limit, all nine lights will be green. If the vehicle speed exceeds 
the pit speed limit, the lights will turn red.
PAGE 1

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
PAGE 2
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | DASH PAGES
Page 2 displays all information in a digital numerical format like
Page 1, but replaces the bar-style tachometer with a more traditional 
analog-style tachometer. Along the left side of the dash, from the 
top to the bottom, are the previous Lap Time, Engine Oil Pressure, 
Fuel Pressure, and Battery Voltage.
On the right side of the dash, from the top to the bottom, is the 
Engine Water Temperature, Engine Oil Temperature, and Engine 
Water Pressure. For pressures and temperatures, the units displayed 
will follow the setting in the setup garage: Pounds per Square Inch 
(PSI) and Degrees Fahrenheit for Imperial units, Bar and Degrees 
Celsius for Metric units. In the center of the dash display is a large 
analog-style tachometer displaying Engine RPM.
A gear indicator is located in the upper-right corner of the display.
When engine RPM drops below normal racing speeds, the pit road 
speed lights will appear as an overlay across the bottom of the 
display. These lights are a graphical representation of the engine 
RPM, tuned to work properly when the transmission is in 2nd gear. 
When the vehicle’s speed is lower than pit road speed, the lights will 
be illuminated in an orange-yellow color.
As vehicle speed increases to the pit road speed limit, these lights 
will change to a green color. When the vehicle is at the pit road 
speed limit, all nine lights will be green. If the vehicle speed exceeds 
the pit speed limit, the lights will turn red.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
PAGE 3
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | DASH PAGES
Page 3 displays all information in a more traditional analog style 
gauge cluster with a large tachometer in the center and six 
accessory gauges on either side of the tachometer. On the left 
side, clockwise from top, is the Engine Water Temperature, Water 
Pressure, and Fuel Pressure.
On the right side, clockwise from top, is the Engine Oil Temperature, 
Battery Voltage, and Engine Oil Pressure. On the bottom left of the 
dash is the previous Lap Time. A gear indicator is located in the 
lower right corner of the display beneath the Volts gauge.
When engine RPM drops below normal racing speeds, the pit road 
speed lights will appear as an overlay across the bottom of the 
display. These lights are a graphical representation of the engine 
RPM, tuned to work properly when the transmission is in 2nd gear. 
When the vehicle’s speed is lower than pit road speed, the lights will 
be illuminated in an orange-yellow color.
As vehicle speed increases to the pit road speed limit, these lights 
will change to a green color. When the vehicle is at the pit road 
speed limit, all nine lights will be green. If the vehicle speed exceeds 
the pit speed limit, the lights will turn red.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce heat buildup, but will provide better grip with 
higher loads and higher speeds. Lower pressures will increase heat 
buildup, but will provide better grip at lower loads and lower speeds. 
Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for
optimum performance.
HOT AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. On left-turn ovals, the right-front tire should always 
see the highest buildup on a balanced car, while the left sides should 
be roughly the same, but it is important to monitor the hot pressures 
after a run and adjust accordingly. Ideally, the difference in hot 
pressures on one side of the car should be roughly equal to the 
difference between cold pressures after a longer run.
TIRES
TIRE DATA
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
while on track. These values are measured in three zones across
the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire in the same locations as
the temperature measurements.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
NOSE WEIGHT
The vehicle’s Nose Weight is the percentage of total vehicle weight 
on the front tires. Nose Weight represents a rough approximation 
of the longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has 
a direct influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle. Higher 
Nose Weight values result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, 
good for low-grip tracks and situations where the vehicle is set up 
with extra front downforce. Conversely, lower Nose Weight values 
are good for high-grip tracks and configurations with high rear 
downforce levels. Smaller tracks will also see benefits from lower 
Nose Weight values, as it will allow the rear of the vehicle to 
rotate easier.
CROSS WEIGHT 
Cross Weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as ARB preload to a small extent. For an oval 
car, Cross Weight is one of the most influential settings for grip level 
while the vehicle is in a turn. Higher Cross Weight values will add 
weight to the left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry and 
helping drive-off on corner exit. Lower Cross-Weight values will help 
the vehicle rotate and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent speed 
from being lost, however too low can result in unstable entry and 
exit. For this vehicle, excessively high crossweight value can also 
lead to left-front tire lockups under braking due to reduced load on 
the left-front wheel.
STEERING PINION
The Steering Pinion setting changes the size of the pinion gear on 
the end of the steering shaft. Represented as distance per revolution 
of the steering wheel, the value displays how much steering rack 
movement will occur while turning the wheel. For example, a 60 mm/
rev pinion will move the steering rack 60mm for a full turn of the 
steering wheel. Higher values produce a faster steering feel, lower 
numbers produce a slower steering feel.
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism
off-center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to 
compensate for chassis settings which place the wheel off center 
and is primarily a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT MC
The size of the front brake master cylinder can be changed to 
alter the braking feel for the front brakes. Larger diameter master 
cylinders will make the pedal feel softer, requiring more brake pedal 
travel and force to reach the same amount of braking force as a 
smaller master cylinder. This can be used to tune braking feel for 
a given driving style as well as to reduce the chances of a brake 
lockup under heavy braking.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR MC
The size of the rear brake master cylinder can be changed to alter 
the braking feel of the rear brakes. Larger diameter master cylinders 
will make the pedal feel softer, requiring more brake pedal travel and 
force to reach the same amount of braking force as a smaller master 
cylinder. This can be used to tune braking feel for a given driving 
style as well as to reduce the chances of a brake lockup under 
heavy braking.
FRONT ARB
FRONT BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force 
to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a 
given situation.
DIAMETER
The Front Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the 
roll stiffness of the front suspension. Options are a Stiff bar (2.00” 
Diameter) or a Soft bar (1.375” diameter). The stiffer bar will reduce 
body roll when cornering and can increase steering responsiveness, 
but can induce understeer when cornering. The softer bar will 
increase body roll as well as reduce understeer when cornering.
ARB ARM
The orientation of the ARB arms can be changed to alter their overall 
stiffness and effectiveness. Represented alphanumerically from P1 
(softest) to P5 (stiffest).
ARB PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done. This option 
will completely detach the bar and keep it from being loaded while 
on track, if desired.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Shock Collar Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the rub blocks on the bottom of the car, 
measured to the bottom of the blocks behind the front wheels. 
Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they can 
directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as 
mechanical grip. Reducing the front ride height will increase front 
downforce and increase oversteer at higher speeds.
SHOCK COLLAR OFFSET
Shock Collar Offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, however this could cause the chassis
to pitch and roll too much, hurting aerodynamic performance
at faster tracks.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.
HS COMPRESSION
The High-Speed (HS) Compression controls how resistant the shock 
is to compression at higher shock shaft speeds, roughly 1.5 in/s. 
This range of motion is usually associated with very bumpy racing 
surfaces or curb strikes, such as seen on road courses. Lower HS 
Compression values will reduce the force exerted in these situations, 
allowing these large forces to be absorbed by the suspension 
without changing the low-speed characteristics of the shock.
This is great for very bumpy tracks or road courses where the car 
will see heavy curb usage, while smoother tracks will benefit from 
higher HS Compression values.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMP SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the
high- and low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking. Higher 
rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will 
allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can better 
control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND
High-Speed (HS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is 
to extension (increase in length), at higher shock shaft speeds, 
usually above 1.5 in/s. This area is commonly seen as a response to 
high-speed compression, such as bumps in the racing surface or 
curb strikes. Higher values will prevent the shock from extending 
too quickly after a bump, which can help to maintain aerodynamic 
consistency in terms of body attitude, but too much rebound can 
keep the suspension from extending quickly enough and 
cause a loss of grip. Lower values will allow faster suspension 
extension, but can allow too much body movement and 
potentially hurt aerodynamics.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will
result in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for 
smoother surfaces.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Higher camber angles will increase the cornering force generated by 
the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will 
have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high 
cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it
is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, all four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
Caster is how much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or 
forward (negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as 
the car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering 
feel but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as 
adding straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front
will cause the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. More net
toe-out will destabilize the car in a straight line and help with
turn-in but increases slip angle on the front wheels and can risk
over-slipping the front tires, which can result in sudden
understeer when cornering.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Shock Collar Offset setting.
RIGHT REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the skid block on the bottom of the car, 
measured to the bottom of the right-rear skid block ahead of the 
right-rear wheel. The left-rear corner lacks a skid block and doesn’t 
have a corresponding ride height. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Reducing
the rear ride height will increase rear downforce and increase 
stability at higher speeds.
SHOCK COLLAR OFFSET
Shock Collar Offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or pitch change) 
which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical 
grip is often better with softer springs which allow for more track 
surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control. For ovals,
a softer left-rear spring (relative to the right-rear) is desired to 
prevent the dynamic cross from being too high in the corners, which 
will result in a balance shift towards understeer through a run.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as 
a result of driver input, such as the rear shocks under acceleration 
or when leaving a banked corner. Higher LS Compression settings 
will prevent the shock from compressing quickly and can quickly 
increase the load transferred to the wheel when the suspension is in 
compression, but can prevent the suspension from absorbing smaller 
bumps and dips in the track. Lower LS compression settings will 
allow for better bump absorption, but can hurt aerodynamic stability 
due to excessive body movement with driver inputs.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMPRESSION
The High-Speed (HS) Compression controls how resistant the shock 
is to compression at higher shock shaft speeds, roughly 1.5 in/s. 
This range of motion is usually associated with very bumpy racing 
surfaces or curb strikes, such as seen on road courses. Lower HS 
Compression values will reduce the force exerted in these situations, 
allowing these large forces to be absorbed by the suspension 
without changing the low-speed characteristics of the shock.
This is great for very bumpy tracks or road courses where the car 
will see heavy curb usage, while smoother tracks will benefit from 
higher HS Compression values.
HS COMP SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface.
Lower slope settings will produce a more digressive compression 
setting, with forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. 
This is good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement 
is not expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope 
setting first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the 
high- and low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking. Higher 
rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will 
allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can better 
control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND
High-Speed (HS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is 
to extension (increase in length), at higher shock shaft speeds, 
usually above 1.5 in/s. This area is commonly seen as a response to 
high-speed compression, such as bumps in the racing surface or 
curb strikes. Higher values will prevent the shock from extending 
too quickly after a bump, which can help to maintain aerodynamic 
consistency in terms of body attitude, but too much rebound can 
keep the suspension from extending quickly enough and cause a 
loss of grip. Lower values will allow faster suspension extension,
but can allow too much body movement and potentially
hurt aerodynamics.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will
result in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for 
smoother surfaces.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. At the rear, 
toe-out will help with turn in and direction changes, while toe-in 
will increase straight-line stability. For short tracks or tracks where 
traction is a problem, setting both rear wheels toed to the left 
(positive right-rear and negative left-rear) can help to straighten the 
car on throttle application.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life,so it 
is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, both rear wheels should be set with negative camber.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
NASCAR NEXT GEN CARS | USER MANUAL
REAR
FINAL DRIVE RATIO
The Final Drive Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion and 
the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed.
DIFF PRELOAD
The differential can be set with a static preload applied to the friction 
surfaces. Higher values produce more locking force in the differential 
in all conditions, producing more understeer under acceleration and 
deceleration. This value will also affect mid-corner performance, 
with higher values not allowing the differential to unlock as much, 
increasing mid-corner understeer.
DIAMETER
The Rear Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the roll 
stiffness of the rear suspension. Options are a Stiff bar 
(2.00” Diameter) or a Soft bar (1.375” diameter). The stiffer bar 
will reduce body roll when cornering and can increase steering 
responsiveness, but can induce oversteer when cornering.
The softer bar will increase body roll as well as reduce
oversteer when cornering.
ARB ARM
The orientation of the ARB arms can be changed to alter their overall 
stiffness and effectiveness. Represented alphanumerically from
P1 (softest) to P5 (stiffest).
ARB PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done. This option 
will completely detach the bar and keep it from being loaded while 
on track, if desired.