--- PAGE 1 ---

1
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 10
 Front » 11
Chassis » 11
Tires » 10 
 Front ARB » 12
 Front Corners » 13 
 Rear » 17
 Rear Corners » 15
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Page 1 » 7
 Page 2 » 8

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of a NASCAR 2003 Gen 4 car! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your continued support, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT 
FRONT / LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM REAR
LENGTH
5156 mm
203 in
WIDTH
1905 mm
75 in
WHEELBASE
2794 mm
110 in
DRY WEIGHT
1542 kg
3400 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1657 kg
3654 lbs
STANDARD
TORQUE
550 lb-ft
740 Nm
POWER
850 bhp
633 kW
RESTRICTED
TORQUE
390 lb-ft
530 Nm
POWER
450 bhp
335 kW
DISPLACEMENT
5.9 Liters
358 cid
RPM LIMIT
9800
RPM LIMIT
8000
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary, but the clutch isn’t required once the vehicle is 
in motion for upshifts or downshifts. 
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
To upshift, simply let off the throttle and select the next higher gear. 
To downshift, give the throttle a blip while selecting the next lower 
gear. If you downshift too early, or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, 
the wheel speed and engine speed will be mismatched, leading to 
wheel hop at the rear and a possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as
your baseline. 
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits
your needs.
Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. For 
example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely will not 
pass at Bristol.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes.
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a 
setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right 
side of the garage as well. 
To save your setup for reference later, click the “Export” button on 
the right side of the garage and save the file. This will produce an 
HTML file with all of the settings for that setup that can be opened 
at any time and viewed in a web browser.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
The Monte Carlo places the four system gauges on the left in a 
cluster, the tachometer to the right of the steering column, and 
a voltmeter to the right.
Oil Pressure - Engine Oil Pressure, in psi
Fuel Pressure - Fuel system pressure, in psi
Oil Temperature - Engine Oil Temperature, in °F
Water Temperature - Engine cooling water temperature, in °F
Tachometer - Engine RPM
Voltmeter - Electrical system voltage
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The 2003 Gen 4 cars feature full sets of analog gauges typical for that era. The Chevrolet and the Ford have unique layouts 
but display the same information.
CHEVROLET

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
FORD
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | DASH PAGES
From left to right:
Tachometer - Engine RPM
Fuel Pressure - Fuel system pressure, in psi
Water Temperature - Engine cooling water temperature, in °F
Oil Pressure - Engine Oil pressure, in psi
Oil Temperature - Engine Oil temperature, in °F
Voltmeter - Electrical system voltage

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds and loads are higher while lower pressures work better at 
slower or flatter tracks where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT AIR PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after running laps on the track, 
the measured tire pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The 
difference between cold and hot pressure is a good way to see 
how tires are being loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing 
more work and load will build more pressure, and paying attention to 
which tires are building more pressure and adjusting cold pressure 
to compensate can be crucial for optimizing tire performance. Hot 
Pressures will usually plateau into a run, these peak pressures 
heavily influencing the car’s balance through the run. By adjusting 
cold pressures based on differences in the Hot Pressures, long-run 
balance can be tuned to prevent changes in handling.
TIRES
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BALLAST FORWARD
To meet minimum weight requirements, tungsten blocks are installed 
within the lower frame rails on the chassis. These blocks can be 
moved fore and aft in the chassis, directly influencing the car’s Nose 
Weight value. The Ballast Forward value is simply a measurement of 
the location of these tungsten blocks relative to a reference point in 
the frame rail. Moving ballast forward in the car raises Nose Weight, 
moving it rearward reduces Nose Weight.
NOSE WEIGHT
The vehicle’s Nose Weight is the percentage of total vehicle weight 
on the front tires. Nose Weight represents a rough approximation 
of the longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has 
a direct influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle. Higher 
Nose Weight values result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, 
good for tracks with low grip or very high speeds. Conversely, 
lower Nose Weight values are good for tracks with high grip 
levels or lower speeds.
CROSS WEIGHT 
Cross Weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as ARB preload to a small extent. For an oval 
car, Cross Weight is one of the most influential settings for grip level 
while the vehicle is in a turn. Higher Cross Weight values will add 
weight to the left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry and 
helping drive-off on corner exit. Lower Cross-Weight values will 
help the vehicle rotate and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent 
speed from being lost, however too low can result in unstable 
entry and exit.
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering 
response is to driver inputs at the steering wheel. This ratio can be 
thought of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one 
degree of turn on the steering box output shaft. For example, a 12:1 
steering ratio will require 12° of steering input to rotate the steering 
output shaft 1° . A steering box with a lower ratio will feel more 
responsive to steering inputs and will require less steering input to 
reach the amount needed to navigate a corner. A steering box with 
a higher ratio will feel less responsive and will require more steering 
input to reach the amount needed to navigate a corner.
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism off-
center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to compensate 
for chassis settings which place the wheel off center and is primarily 
a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more 
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference 
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for 
a given situation.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
TAPE CONFIG
Grille Tape is applied to the radiator openings in the front fascia 
to reduce drag when the full opening isn’t necessary to keep the 
engine at optimum running temperatures. The Race configuration will 
open up the radiator opening to allow air into the radiator for race 
FRONT ARB
sessions or long runs in practice. For Qualifying, where performance 
is key, the Qual setting will fully block the radiator opening. This will 
dramatically reduce drag and increase downforce, but will cause the 
engine to overheat very quickly and lead to engine failure. The Qual 
setting is not available in Race sessions.
DIAMETER
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) diameter influences the stiffness of the 
front suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the 
roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll 
and improved aerodynamic stability but increasing mechanical 
understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive 
steering feel for the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB size will 
soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll and reducing 
aerodynamic efficiency but decreasing mechanical understeer. 
This can result in a less-responsive feel from the steering. 
ARM ASYMMETRY
The difference in length between the left and right sway bar arms 
can be altered via the Arm Asymmetry settings. The “None” setting 
will set the two arms at equal length, while increasing the setting will 
increase the difference in length of the two arms. This can be used 
to produce multiple effects, primarily serving to produce a higher 
anti-roll force on the right-front suspension than on the left-front, 
effectively rolling the chassis to the left when under load. This 
can be used to correct excessive roll without increasing the ARB 
diameter. A knock-on effect of asymmetry is a slight increase in front 
end heave stiffness, or resistance to vertical travel. Since the two 
different lengths of arms cause the bar to be twisted at different 
rates, vertical travel will load the ARB, possibly leading to higher 
front ride heights on straights.
CHAIN / SOLID LINK
The type of linkage installed on the right-side ARB arm can be 
changed to improve the chassis response to bumps in the track 
surface. If a Solid link is installed, the ARB will transfer loads from 
one wheel to the other in all situations. If a Chain is installed, a sharp 
bump to the left-front wheel will collapse the right-side linkage 
and prevent the sudden load from being applied to the right-front 
wheel. This is very useful over bumpy surfaces where a bump could 
unload the front tires and cause sudden understeer. Under normal 
conditions the two settings are identical and will have no influence 
on the suspension’s roll stiffness.
LINK SLACK
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay bar 
engagement or apply a static load to the bar. Positive or negative 
values are referenced as an offset to a standard length and don’t 
necessarily represent anything specific. This adjustment directly 
affects the bar’s Preload, outlined below.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights. Negative preload will 
load the bar, causing the chassis to roll to the left under static 
conditions. If the preload is zero with a positive link slack, the 
suspension must travel before engaging the ARB. This setting 
does not affect roll stiffness, however it does affect total bar 
load while on track.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done. This option 
will completely detach the bar and keep it from being loaded while 
on track, if desired.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Front 
heights are measured at the bottom of the chassis frame rail 
just behind the wheel well and can be roughly identified via the 
skirt rivets at the bottom of the door. Since these values are 
measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but 
instead provide a reliable value for the height of the car off of 
the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, however this could cause the chassis 
to pitch and roll too much, hurting aerodynamic performance at 
faster tracks.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire more quickly. Lower values reduce compression 
resistance and transfer load onto a given tire more slowly. 
Differences between left and right bump stiffness influence dynamic 
crossweight on corner entry and result in a dynamic shift in balance 
while the shocks are being compressed, with greater right front 
bump shifting the balance toward understeer.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound 
values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the 
wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, 
higher front rebound can increase on-throttle mechanical understeer 
(but reduce splitter lift, maintaining downforce) while lower values 
will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce mechanical 
understeer, but will allow more splitter lift and reduce downforce. 
Differences between left and right front rebound influence dynamic 
cross on corner exit, with greater right front rebound shifting the 
balance toward oversteer. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Higher camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so 
it is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, all four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
Caster is how much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or 
forward (negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as 
the car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering 
feel but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as 
adding straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front will 
cause the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. More net toe-
out will destabilize the car in a straight line and help with turn-in but 
increases slip angle on the front wheels and can risk over-slipping 
the front tires at high values, which can result in sudden understeer 
when cornering. On ovals, front toe will usually be different for each 
wheel due to asymmetric loading on the front tires.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing rear ride height will shift aero forward (more oversteer) 
as well as slightly increasing overall downforce and drag. Conversely, 
reducing rear ride height will increase rear and overall downforce 
and reduce drag.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this setting 
applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. Decreasing 
the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its 
corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing the 
value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, for example) 
or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to prevent 
crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or pitch change) 
which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical 
grip is often better with softer springs which allow for more track 
surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control. For ovals, a 
softer left-rear spring (relative to the right-rear) is desired to prevent 
the dynamic cross from being too high in the corners, which will 
result in a balance shift towards understeer through a run.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression 
(reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire more quickly. Lower values reduce compression 
resistance and transfer load onto a given tire more slowly. 
Differences between left and right bump stiffness influence dynamic 
crossweight and result in a dynamic shift in balance while the shocks 
are being compressed, particularly on corner exit, with greater right 
rear bump shifting the dynamic balance toward oversteer.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension 
(increase in length), typically during body movement as a result of 
driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, 
lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound 
values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the 
wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to 
maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, 
higher rear rebound can increase off throttle mechanical oversteer 
while lower values will maintain rear end grip longer, helping to 
reduce mechanical oversteer off throttle, but will allow more rear 
deck lift and shift the aero balance forward. Differences between 
left and right rear rebound can influence off throttle dynamic cross 
weight on corner entry, with greater right rear rebound shifting the 
dynamic balance toward understeer.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. At the rear, 
toe-out will help with turn in and direction changes, while toe-in 
will increase straight-line stability. For short tracks or tracks where 
traction is a problem, setting both rear wheels toed to the left 
(positive right-rear and negative left-rear) can help to straighten 
the car on throttle application.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so 
it is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, both rear wheels should be set with negative camber.
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The Track Bar is a solid steel rod mounted to the rear axle 
housing on the left side and to the chassis frame on the right 
side to hold the rear axle assembly in place. The track bar’s left- 
and right-side mounts can be raised or lowered to alter both 
the dynamic loading on the rear tires as well as change the rear 
suspension’s roll stiffness, with both effects having a large effect 
on handling characteristics.
Raising the overall height of the track bar (equal adjustment on 
both ends of the bar in the same direction, e.g. 1” up on both ends) 
will increase the roll stiffness of the rear suspension and free up 
the chassis through all phases of cornering. Lowering the track 
bar on both ends will reduce the rear roll stiffness and tighten the 
chassis while cornering. Since this type of adjustment alters rear roll 
stiffness it can have a large effect on the chassis’s roll attitude, so it’s 
important to keep this in mind while making adjustments.
Adjusting the two ends individually will shift loads from one rear 
tire to the other as the chassis loads. Raising the right-side track 
bar mount will reduce right-rear grip, freeing up the chassis during 
the transition from center to corner exit, and is a good adjustment 
for a “tight-center, loose-off” condition. Raising the left-side track 
bar mount will help the car rotate into the center of the corner. 
Conversely, lowering one of the mounts will do the opposite and 
increase grip on its associated tire.
Since the Track Bar Height values are calculated based on Ride 
Heights, these will change in the garage as other parts of the car 
are adjusted, however the right-rear mount will move more than the 
left-rear since that mount is on the chassis itself. Before making 
adjustments, note the track bar heights and be sure to return them 
to the starting values after adjustments are completed.
TRUCK ARM MOUNT
The rear axle is held in place longitudinally with two truck arms, 
mounted to the bottom of the chassis underneath the driver 
compartment. The forward mounts can be adjusted up and down, 
resulting in various anti-squat and rear-steer configurations. Higher 
truck arm mounts will reduce rear end grip, increase rear steer, 
add anti-squat, and reduce wheel hop under heavy braking. Lower 
truck arm mounts will increase rear end bite, decrease rear steer, 
reduce anti-squat, and increase the chances of wheel hop under 
heavy braking.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
REAR
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion and 
the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed.
ARB DIAMETER
The Rear Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the roll 
stiffness of the rear suspension. Larger bar diameters will increase 
rear roll stiffness and can increase steering responsiveness, but can 
induce oversteer when cornering. Smaller bar diameters will increase 
body roll as well as reduce oversteer when cornering.
ARM SYMMETRY
As with the front ARB, the lengths of the rear ARB arms can be split 
to create asymmetric loading across the rear axle. Higher asymmetry 
values will lengthen the left-side arm, effectively weakening the bar 
on the left-rear corner compared to the right-rear. This can be used 
to create a behavior similar to having a stiff right-rear spring in the 
corners without having it on the straights, very helpful for tracks with 
high speeds and corner loads but long, fast straights.
CHAIN / SOLID LINK
Similar to the front ARB linkage, the rear linkage can be set to a 
chain or a solid link. If the chain link is installed, bumps to the left-
rear wheel won’t always be transferred directly to the right-rear 
wheel, helping to maintain grip over bumpy track surfaces.
PRELOAD
Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in the garage. 
Rear bar preload is useful for tuning its behavior in transitions, like 
when corner banking is building up or falling away. Higher preload 
values will keep the bar loaded more through these situations, 
placing more load onto the right-rear corner and inducing oversteer, 
but does not affect rear roll stiffness. As with the front ARB, zero 
preload and a positive link slack will require the suspension to travel 
before the bar is engaged.
LINK SLACK
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay bar 
engagement or apply a static load to the bar. Positive or negative 
values are referenced as an offset to a standard length and don’t 
necessarily represent anything specific. This adjustment directly 
affects the bar’s Preload, outlined above.
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
DRIVING TIPS
AERODYNAMICS
The NASCAR 2003 Gen 4 cars harken back to a simpler era in 
Stock Car racing, before Coil-Binding, bump stops, and many of the 
aerodynamic exploits we see in modern times. As a result, the cars 
are much simpler to understand and set up, providing a great way 
The 2003 Gen 4 cars were, in their day, the fastest stock cars 
on track every weekend. Their high power and low aero create a 
dramatically different driving behavior than modern cars, and have 
to be approached that may not be familiar if you’re used to modern 
stock cars.
The most immediate difference is the engine. Since engine power 
and torque changes with altitude and air temperature, engine 
performance will change based on the track’s location. Tracks at 
higher altitudes, or races run in hotter air temperatures, will have 
less power (usually around 850hp) than tracks closer to sea-level, 
which can surpass 900hp in the right conditions. This is a significant 
amount of horsepower for the rear tires to handle, so throttle control 
is crucial for running good lap times. Drivers may notice that, even 
on a well-balanced chassis, the rear tires can still slip and spin when 
leaving a corner, even at high speeds. This can be disastrous for 
drivers who pick up the throttle too soon, induce understeer in the 
second half of a corner, leading to a spin at corner exit (the typical 
push-loose condition).
While aerodynamics was still in relatively early days in 2003, these 
cars do generate a good bit more downforce than their predecessors 
without being as sensitive to pitch and height as cars in recent 
years. Thus, target heights are more vague and the car has a much 
larger “sweet spot” than newer cars.
On the front end, we’ve modeled the way aerodynamics were 
understood in this era. The valence’s lower edge, marked as 
CFSRRideHeight in telemetry, should be run around 1 inch from the 
ground for peak downforce. Raising the front end will reduce overall 
downforce and shift aero forward slightly, lowering the front end 
from this point will stall the valence and reduce overall downforce.
At the rear, targets become slightly more complicated thanks to the 
offset heights of the chassis frame rails. Measuring to the telemetry 
ride height channels (LR & RRRideHeight), having the left-rear 
around 4” and the right-rear around 5.5” is a good baseline for most 
tracks. Generally, running the car at a level attitude, if not slightly 
rear-up, will be a good configuration. As mentioned, this car is not 
very pitch sensitive and has a large sweet spot, so it’s not as crucial 
to have the heights perfect when compared to modern cars.
to learn the basics. For iRacing Official series, setups are fixed for 
all cars, but should you wish to run the car in an open-setup League 
or Hosted event, here are tips on how to get the most out of these 
high-powered machines.
While the aerodynamic performance of these cars was considered 
quite good in 2003, the overall downforce is relatively low by today’s 
standards. When combined with lower drag and high power, this 
creates a unique combination of high corner-entry speeds without 
the available grip to carry speed through the corner. A track like 
Michigan, for example, can easily exceed 200mph into Turn 1, but 
the lack of downforce means corner speeds can drop down into the 
150-160mph range. This means the driver has to scrub away a lot of 
speed in a short time, so drivers will need to use a lot of brake and 
let the car coast through the corner until throttle can be applied. 
Not enough braking will cause the car to understeer through the 
center, not enough coasting will lead to a push-loose off the corner. 
For drivers new to these cars, it’s highly recommended to stick to the 
provided setups until comfortable with the car’s quirks and behavior. 
Adjusting the car instead of learning to control the throttle can lead 
to bad habits down the road.
Superspeedways bring a unique challenge with the different body 
style used at these tracks. Aerodynamic height targets change 
entirely with this body style, since downforce isn’t really necessary in 
most cases. Where the downforce body wants either a level or rear-
up attitude, the superspeedway body operates best when the rear 
is run lower than the front. Front valence heights (CFSRRideHeight) 
will work best between 1 and 2 inches above the ground, with higher 
heights producing slightly less drag and downforce. Lower than this 
will produce more drag, so make sure the nose stays up! For the rear, 
heights around 3.5” on the left-rear and 4” on the right-rear should 
be the targets. 

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR GEN 4 CARS | SETUP TIPS
SPRINGS
WEIGHT DISTRIBUTION
REAR ARB
These cars ran during the transition years between the older 
Conventional-style setups and newer Big-Bar/Soft-Spring setups, 
but preceded Coil-Binding as it eventually became known by a 
couple of years. Spring packages for the 2003 cars will be heavily 
The relatively low aerodynamic loads and high amount of suspension 
travel lend the cars to being very mechanically-dependent, and thus 
very sensitive to weight placement. Noseweight can be useful in 
stabilizing the car at high speed tracks like Michigan or Indianapolis 
but can lead to understeer, while lower noseweight values will 
help rotate the car around slow, tight corners like Martinsville 
or Richmond. Superspeedways, where the car is not grip-limited 
and any understeer will scrub speed away, will always want lower 
noseweight values. Generally, keeping the noseweight value around 
50% is a good starting point, with 1-2% above and below that 
being reasonable.
In modern stock cars, rear anti-roll bars are generally outlawed 
due to the unique ways they were run in 2011-2012. However, 
in 2003, they were an integral part of the chassis’s setup and can 
be a powerful tool when used.
Rear ARBs are generally used to add right-rear wheel rate in the 
corners without the need for a high-rate right-rear spring. This helps 
by giving the chassis the spring rates it needs to navigate a corner 
without having the stiff rear springs that keep the rear of the car 
up in the air, generating drag, when going down the straights. 
track-dependent, with some tracks working better on Conventional-
style spring packages (higher-banked, or larger tracks) and others 
working better with softer front spring packages (shorter and/or 
flatter tracks).
Crossweight is also extremely important, but the dependency on 
mechanical grip results in crossweight being an extremely sensitive 
and powerful adjustment. You’ll be able to use lower crossweight 
values at higher grip tracks like Kansas, Michigan, or Las Vegas, 
since the track’s grip can keep the car going straight with the freed-
up chassis. Lower grip tracks, or very bumpy tracks where loads 
under each wheel can change suddenly (like Atlanta’s old surface) 
will need higher crossweight values to keep the car stable. Short 
tracks depend on crossweight for forward drive, and thus generally 
run higher than you’d expect. More crossweight will tighten the car 
through the corner but make it easier to apply the throttle, so drivers 
will need to find a tradeoff between the two.
 For example, Indianapolis Motor Speedway has very long straights 
with short, tight corners, so having a rear ARB prevents the need for 
a large right-rear spring, allowing for less rear spring split and thus 
better traction off the corners.
Preloading the rear ARB is essential, as the motion ratios for the 
rear bar are much larger than the front bar. Adding negative preload 
to the rear bar will keep it loaded as the car enters and leaves the 
corners, helping the car rotate despite softer rear springs.