--- PAGE 1 ---

1
PORSCHE 963 GTP
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Tire Data » 12
Tires & Aero » 12
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
 Aero Settings » 13
Chassis » 14
 Front » 14
 Rear » 18
 Front Corners » 16
 Rear Corners » 17
Brakes / Drive Unit » 21
Dampers » 19
 Lighting and Brake Spec » 21
 Hybrid Config and Fuel » 22
 Traction Control, Gear Ratios & Rear Diff Spec » 23
Setup Tips » 24
SETUP TIPS
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dashboard » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Porsche 963 GTP! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
PORSCHE 963 GTP | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH PUSHROD-
ACTUATED INBOARD SPRINGS
TWIN-TURBO V8 WITH BOSCH 
MGU HYBRID SYSTEM
LENGTH
5100 mm
200.8 in
WIDTH
2000 mm
78.7 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.6 Liters
280.3 CID
TORQUE
497 lb-ft
673 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8158 RPM 
POWER
671 bhp
500 kW
WHEELBASE
3148 mm
124 in
DRY WEIGHT
1030 kg
2271 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1187 kg
2616 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
PORSCHE 963 GTP | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting the 
“upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require a clutch 
input to shift up or down. However, the car’s downshift protection 
will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast 
for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. In these 
situations the downshift command will simply be ignored. Upshifting 
is recommended when all of the shift lights on the steering wheel 
have changed to blue.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is 
not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as 
your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and 
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper 
racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a 
number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning 
the car to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. 
PORSCHE 963 GTP | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Porsche 963’s main display is integrated into the steering wheel, displaying all information on a single page to the driver.
Left Column
Fuel Target Bar
The far left of the display has a graphical representation of fuel usage compared to the current fuel Target. 
If the previously completed lap used less fuel than the target, this bar will show in green. If the previously 
completed lap used more fuel than the target, the bar will be red. The distance from the center represents 
how much fuel was used or saved, with the top and bottom representing 1 Liter over the target and 1 Liter 
under the target, respectively.
ERS
The currently selected Energy Recovery System mode is in the upper left green box. Each number is tied to a 
mode: 1 = No Deploy, 2 = Qual, 3 = Attack, 4 = Balanced, 5 = Build
TCLO Setting for the Traction Control’s Slip parameter
Lap Current lap number
AR-F Front Anti Roll Bar setting
Bias Brake Bias Target setting
Mig Brake Bias Migration setting
MIG Brake Bias Migration setting
Target The Brake Bias Target, or offset setting
The following settings are within the FUEL box in the lower left:
Target The amount of fuel expected to be used per lap. This is set in the garage.
Delta
The amount of fuel that was used relative to the Target value. Negative is fuel saved, 
positive is excess fuel used.
Fuel Amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Units dependent on the units selected for the garage.
Laps Estimated number of laps remaining before the fuel tank is empty.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | DASH PAGES
Right Column
State of Charge Bar
A bar on the far right displays the current ERS Battery State of Charge (SoC). Color-coded sections are used 
to quickly show a full SoC (red), a low SoC (green), and a yellow section for a mid-level SoC.
AR-R Rear Anti Roll Bar setting
Tyre Inoperable
TCLA Setting for the Traction Control’s Gain parameter
Strat Inoperable
Pred The predicted lap time, updated live
Split Split time, relative to the best time of the session, is shown underneath the predicted lap time.
Brake Temps The current brake temperatures (units determined by garage) are shown in the lower right.
Low Fuel Warning
At low fuel levels the right side of the display will show this large red overlay with a low fuel message as well 
as a value showing the amount of fuel remaining. This can be cleared by pressing and holding the button 
assigned to Low Fuel Accept for two seconds
Center Column
Speed
The vehicle’s speed is shown in the top of the display at the center with units dependent on the
garage selection
Gear Currently selected gear is shown in the center of the display
ERS Mode Below the gear display is the active ERS deploy mode
The following settings are within the yellow Tire box in the center:
Tire Temperature Surface temps for each tire are shown in the outer corners of the tire info box
Tire Pressures Tire pressures (units based on garage) are shown in the center

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | DASH PAGES
WHEELSPIN / BRAKE LOCK INDICATOR LIGHTS
A pair of LED clusters on either side of the cockpit can illuminate in various colors to convey wheel lockup and traction 
control activation.
Traction Control Activation If the Traction Control system activates to reduce wheelspin both LED clusters will flash in blue
Brake Lockup
If a wheel begins locking under braking the lights will illuminate to indicate which wheel is 
locking up. The cluster on the left represents the left side tires with the purple lights for the LF 
and the amber lights for the LR. The right cluster represents the right-side wheels in the same 
way. The severity of the lockup is represented by how many lights are illuminated, with 1 light 
being a mild lockup and 4 lights representing a near-full lockup.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | DASH PAGES
SHIFT LIGHTS
PIT LIMITER
When the optimum shift point is reached, all the shift lights will flash in blue.
The LEDs above the steering wheel’s display are used to provide an indication to the driver of when to shift to the next gear. As RPM 
increases, the LEDs will illuminate from the outside to the inside from green to red. More lights will illuminate as the optimum shift point is 
approaching.
A pair of LED clusters on either side of the cockpit can illuminate in various colors to convey wheel lockup and traction 
When the pit limiter is activated the main display will have a red or green overlay over the top half of the screen displaying 
the current gear and the current vehicle speed. The display and the side LED clusters will appear different depending on 
where the car is in relation to pit road and the current speed.
Approaching Pits
If the limiter is activated before the entry to pit road and the speed is above the pit road speed 
limit for the track the display banner and the side clusters will appear red. The side clusters 
will illuminate more lights the farther the current vehicle speed is above the pit road speed, 
with a full set of lights indicating the vehicle’s speed is very high. As speed decreases and 
approaches pit road speed lights will begin to turn off, from the bottom to the top, until pit 
road speed is reached.
Correct Speed
Once the correct pit road speed is achieved, the side clusters will illuminate fully in green and 
the display banner will change from red to green.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
REAR WING ANGLE
The rear wing angle setting changes the Angle of Attack of the wing 
elements. Increasing wing angle increases the downforce generated 
by the wing but increases drag, while decreasing the wing angle 
reduces the downforce generated by the wing while reducing drag. 
Rear wing angle has a heavy influence on rear downforce, having a 
heavy influence on rear-end grip in mid- to high-speed corners.
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool used to display the car’s approximate 
aerodynamic values in a given configuration. Changes to the car’s 
aerodynamic settings will be reflected in the Aero Calculator, giving 
an idea of how the car will behave aerodynamically while on the race 
track. This calculator can also be used to determine what changes 
need to be made to the car to alleviate aerodynamically-induced 
handling issues.
AERO SETTINGS
DOWNFORCE BALANCE
Displayed in percent of Front downforce, this value shows how 
much of the car’s total downforce is over the front axle. A higher 
percentage value indicates more front downforce, increasing 
oversteer in mid- to high-speed corners and a lower percentage 
value indicates more rear downforce, increasing understeer in
mid- to high-speed corners.
L/D
The “L/D” value is the ratio of Lift (downforce) to Drag. This 
quantifies how efficiently the car’s bodywork is producing downforce 
in terms of how much drag is being produced as a result. A higher 
L/D value means more downforce is being produced for each unit of 
drag, meaning the bodywork is being more efficient. Having a higher 
L/D value without sacrificing overall downforce will result in a faster, 
more efficient car. Optimum values for L/D can vary based on the 
aerodynamic configuration and track type.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
HEAVE SPRING
The front Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles 
external loads from purely vertical loads and doesn’t control loads 
that would induce chassis roll when cornering. Generally these
loads are present for increasing downforce loads at higher speeds, 
dips and crests in the track, or under heavy braking. Higher rate 
values will stiffen the suspension in heave, which is good for 
controlling ride heights to maintain a good aerodynamic platform, 
but can produce a bouncing effect on rough surfaces. Lower rates 
will absorb bumps and loads easier, but will hurt the aerodynamic 
platform due to excessive chassis movement.
HEAVE PERCH OFFSET
The Heave Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the Heave 
Spring. This is one of two methods to adjust ride height through the 
front Heave element, with lower values preloading the spring more 
and raising front ride heights. Conversely, higher values will unload 
the spring and lower front ride heights.
HEAVE SPRING DEFLECTION
Heave Spring Deflection represents the amount the Heave Spring
is compressed under static conditions. This is not directly adjustable 
but will change with adjustments to the Heave Perch Offset and 
front Torsion Bar settings.
HEAVE SLIDER DEFLECTION
The Slider Deflection is how far the slider mechanism the
Heave Spring is mounted on has compressed from fully extended.
Similar to a shock but without any damping forces produced, this 
doesn’t influence the suspension’s behavior.
ROLL SPRING
The Roll Spring is a device in the front suspension that counteracts 
roll movement but not vertical loading, similar to an Anti-Roll Bar. 
Changing the Roll Spring rate will alter the front suspension’s 
stiffness in roll, with higher values increasing roll stiffness and lower 
values reducing roll stiffness. Higher roll stiffness will counteract 
chassis roll when cornering which can produce a more consistent 
aerodynamic platform, especially at high speeds, but can reduce 
mechanical grip across the front axle in slower corners. Lowering roll 
stiffness will increase mechanical grip at the front axle and reduce 
understeer in slow corners but can allow too much body roll in
high-speed corners, hurting aero performance.
ROLL PERCH OFFSET
The Roll Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the Roll Spring. 
This adjustment is used to remove pre-load from the Roll Spring 
following changes elsewhere on the chassis. Due to tech limits this 
cannot be used to alter ride heights and is mainly used to alter the 
Roll Spring Deflection value.
ROLL SPRING DEFLECTION
The Roll Spring Deflection is how much the Roll Spring has 
compressed from its free (unloaded) length. This is not directly 
adjustable, but is altered as a result of other front suspension 
adjustments, especially the Roll Perch Offset setting. In order to
pass tech limits in the garage this value must be near-zero.
ROLL DAMPER DEFLECTION
This displays how much the Roll Damper is compressed from its 
fully-extended length while under static loads in the garage.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
ARB SETTING
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) setting changes whether the ARB
is connected or disconnected from the front suspension. 
Connecting the ARB will increase front roll stiffness, which
can reduce mechanical grip and induce understeer, but it will 
allow for the ARB Adjustment (below) to be utilized by the driver. 
Disconnecting the ARB will increase grip across the front axle and 
reduce understeer, but will also disable the ARB Adjustment option 
for the driver.
ARB ADJUSTMENT
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly.
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB 
itself, increasing roll stiffness in the front suspension and inducing 
understeer. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness of the 
front suspension and reduce understeer or even promote oversteer 
in extreme cases. The front ARB Adjustment is available as an in-car 
adjustment via the F8 black box as the “FARB Setting”.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.
PUSHROD LENGTH OFFSET
This adjusts the length of both front suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great way 
to adjust front ride height without altering the preload on the 
Heave Spring.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Torsion Bar Turns setting on the front corners.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom of the center skid plank on the 
underside of the chassis. This setting is not directly adjustable and 
is changed via the front end settings (Heave spring and Pushrod 
offset). Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as 
they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing the front ride height will 
decrease overall downforce and shift the aerodynamic balance 
rearward, but will decrease drag slightly. Conversely, reducing front 
ride height will increase downforce and shift aero balance forward 
while slightly increasing overall drag.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center
of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than
the bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads,
negative camber is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative 
camber values will increase the cornering force generated by the 
tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have 
under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high 
cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is 
important to find a balance between life and performance.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Raising the rear ride height will increase overall downforce and shift 
aero to the front of the car but will increase drag. Decreasing rear 
ride height will do the opposite, with aero shifting rearward and 
overall downforce and drag decreasing.
SHOCK DEFLECTION
Shock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from its 
fully extended length while under static conditions in the garage. 
This is useful for determining how much shock travel is available 
before a bump stop is engaged on the shock.
SPRING DEFLECTION
Spring Deflection shows how much the spring has compressed from 
its unloaded length. This can be used to see spring preload under 
static conditions and compare it against other corners of the car, 
with higher values representing more preload on a given spring.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this
setting applies a preload to the spring under static conditions.
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner.
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s aero platform better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, but will cause the car’s aerodynamic 
platform to suffer. Due to homologation rules, rear spring rates 
must be symmetrical across the rear axle and can only be changed 
in pairs.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of grip the tire will have under acceleration and braking.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in (positive value in the garage) 
is when the front of the wheel is closer to the centerline than the 
rear of the wheel, and Toe-out (negative value in the garage) is the 
opposite. On the rear end, adding toe-in will increase straight-line 
stability but may hurt how well the car changes direction.
CHASSIS

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
THIRD SPRING
The Third Spring, similar to the front Heave Spring, is a spring 
element configured to provide resistance only in vertical suspension 
movement without affecting roll stiffness. This spring element 
is helpful with controlling increasing aerodynamic loads and 
maintaining the proper aerodynamic attitude around a circuit.
Higher rates will stiffen the rear suspension in heave and maintain 
a more consistent chassis attitude through varying loads and 
speeds but can hurt rear mechanical grip. Lower rates will increase 
mechanical grip but can result in the rear bodywork moving 
excessively through changing loads and producing inconsistent 
aerodynamic performance.
THIRD PERCH OFFSET
The Third Perch Offset is used to adjust preload on the rear Third 
Spring. This will adjust ride height through the rear Third Spring 
element, with lower values preloading the spring more and raising 
rear ride heights. Conversely, higher values will unload the spring 
and lower rear ride heights.
THIRD SPRING DEFLECTION
Third Spring Deflection represents the amount the rear Third Spring 
is compressed under static conditions. This is not directly adjustable 
but will change with adjustments to the Third Perch Offset and rear 
Spring settings.
THIRD SLIDER DEFLECTION
The Slider Deflection is how far the slider mechanism the
Third Spring is mounted on has compressed from fully extended.
Similar to a shock but without any damping forces produced, this 
doesn’t influence the suspension’s behavior.
ARB SIZE
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size alters the stiffness of the rear 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the
roll stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll
but increasing mechanical oversteer. Conversely, reducing
the ARB size will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body
roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer but can result in a
less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the rear 
axle will increase. Disconnecting the bar will greatly reduce the roll 
stiffness by removing the ARB entirely, which will also disable the 
ARB Adjustment for the rear.
ARB ADJUSTMENT
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can 
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB 
itself, increasing roll stiffness in the rear suspension and inducing 
oversteer. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness of
the rear suspension and reduce oversteer. The rear ARB Adjustment
is available as an in-car adjustment via the F8 black box as the 
“RARB Setting”.
PUSHROD LENGTH DELTA
This adjusts the length of both rear suspension pushrods together, 
shown as an offset from a baseline length figure. This is a great way 
to adjust rear ride height without altering the preload on the rear 
Third Spring or either of the rear Torsion Bars.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed
in percent. This is adjusted via the rear spring perch offset settings 
on the rear corner springs. This value should be around 50% for
most tracks.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
FRONT HEAVE / REAR CORNERS / REAR 3RD
LS COMPRESSION DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer on throttle application. 
For shocks on the front end, increasing Low-Speed Compression 
can induce understeer under braking and at turn-in, reducing it will 
reduce understeer. Increasing Low-Speed Compression on the rear 
of the car will increase traction on initial throttle application, while 
reducing it can reduce on-throttle understeer.
HS COMPRESSION DAMPING
High-Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track.
HS COMP DAMP SLOPE (REAR CORNERS ONLY)
The High-Speed Compression Damping Slope setting controls the 
overall shape of the high-speed compression side of the shock. 
Lower slope values produce a flatter, more digressive curve while 
higher values result in a more linear and aggressive compression 
graph. The value of the slope setting is very important in controlling 
bump absorption at high shock velocities and controlling the 
aerodynamic platform. A lower slope will be helpful for rougher 
tracks in absorbing bumps and sharp impacts such as curbs,
while a higher slope will keep the suspension more rigid, which can 
be helpful in resisting compression and raising the chassis above a 
bump in the track surface. It’s important to understand that these 
settings will affect the range the High-Speed Compression will have, 
with higher slope values producing a higher overall force for
high-speed compression.
LS REBOUND DAMPING
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. 
On the front of the car, higher Low-Speed Rebound can induce 
understeer on throttle application while higher settings on the rear of 
the car can induce understeer under braking.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
HS REBOUND DAMPING
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps
and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend
more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar 
results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled oscillations 
if set improperly.
LS DAMPING
The Low-Speed damping setting on the front Roll Damper will
alter how resistant the damper is to both compression and 
expansion during roll. Higher values will produce a stiffer shock
with chassis roll, which can load the outer tire in a corner more 
quickly, and lower values will soften the shock and delay load to
the outer tire. Due to the Roll Damper’s operation, rolling the
chassis will result in the damper compressing for one direction
and rebounding for the other direction, thus both compression
and rebound are adjusted equally together.
HS DAMPING
The High-Speed damping setting will alter how stiff the front
Roll Damper is at higher velocities. As with the Low-Speed setting,
the compression and rebound values are linked as one.
HS DAMP SLOPE
The High-Speed damping slope setting will alter how digressive
or linear the rear Roll Damper is when shock velocities are in the
high-speed regime. Higher values will produce a more linear 
response, with shock stiffness increasing as velocity increases, 
while lower values will produce a more digressive response where 
stiffness doesn’t increase consistently with shock velocity.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | BRAKES / DRIVE UNIT
BRAKES/DRIVE UNIT
LIGHTING & BRAKE SPEC
ROOF ID LIGHT COLOR
This setting will change the color of the small LED cluster in the 
headlights that illuminate whenever the Pit Limiter is active. This is 
strictly a visual change for identifying the car in nighttime conditions 
and has no effect on the vehicle’s handling.
PAD COMPOUND
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake
Pad Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, 
reducing the effectiveness of the brakes but allowing for better 
brake pressure modulation, while “Medium” and “High” provide
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force 
to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a 
given situation.
BRAKE BIAS TARGET
Sets the brake bias with an offset from the Brake Pressure Bias. 
Positive values will set the brake bias higher than the Pressure Bias 
setting by 0.5% per click, negative values will set the bias lower 
than the Pressure Bias by 0.5% per click. For example, if the Brake 
Pressure Bias is 50% and the Target is “2”, the actual brake bias will 
be set to 51%. This is adjustable in-car via the F8 black box.
BRAKE BIAS MIGRATION
This sets how far forward or rearward the brake bias will shift with 
brake pedal travel. Positive values will migrate the bias forward and 
increase the maximum brake bias by 1% per click, negative values 
will migrate it rearward and reduce the minimum brake bias by 1%. 
This is adjustable in-car via the F8 black box.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
HYBRID CONFIG & FUEL
NO DEPLOY
In the “No Deploy” mode, the Hybrid system will not use any energy 
stored in the battery. This essentially disables the Hybrid drive 
system and will only charge the battery throughout a lap. This is only 
available in Qualifying and Test sessions and is used to fully charge 
the battery before switching to Qual mode.
QUAL
This mode is intended to be used on flying laps during qualifying 
sessions and will attempt to use all of the battery charge during 
a lap. This is only available during Qualifying and Test sessions 
and should be preceded by the No Deploy setting on outlaps and 
warmup laps to ensure the battery is fully charged before switching 
to the Qual mode.
ATTACK
Attack mode reduces the target State of Charge to use more power 
during race sessions to help with overtaking. Generally the laptime 
gain from this mode is not enough to offset the loss in pace from 
having to recharge and recover from using Attack mode, so it 
should be used only when it is absolutely necessary to complete 
an overtake. This mode can also be used on the final lap for a burst 
of speed since the battery is no longer needed. This mode is only 
available for Practice, Race, and Test sessions.
BALANCED
The Balanced mode is the primary Race mode for the Hybrid system. 
This mode will attempt to deploy electrical charge to reduce lap 
times as much as possible while still maintaining a reasonable State 
of Charge over the duration of a lap. At the start of a session, it will 
take a few flying laps for the Hybrid system to learn the track and 
optimize deployment for the best lap times, and this mode is only 
available in Practice, Race, and Test sessions.
BUILD
The Build mode will attempt to build battery charge as quickly
as possible in the event of a low battery charge or if it is needed 
prior to switching to Attack mode. Note that this will compromise
lap times significantly compared to Balanced, and it’s important
to switch back to Balanced mode once the battery has charged
to avoid losing harvested energy and to prevent unnecessary
loss in pace. This mode is only available in Practice, Race,
and Test sessions.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car 
leaves the garage.
The Porsche 963 GTP features five deploy modes for the MGU-K Hybrid system to alter the target State of Charge (SoC) 
for the end of a lap. Each of these modes will use varying levels of energy throughout a lap to reach a target, and thus 
some will produce more power over the course of a lap and faster lap times at the cost of discharging the battery.
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | BRAKES / DRIVE UNIT

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | BRAKES / DRIVE UNIT
TRACTION CONTROL, GEAR RATIOS, & REAR DIFF SPEC
TRACTION CONTROL GAIN
Gain is the amount of intervention the Traction Control will
exert when wheel spin is detected. Higher values result in a
more aggressive throttle cut to control wheelspin. This value
can be changed in the F8 black box while driving.
TRACTION CONTROL SLIP
Slip is how sensitive the Traction Control system will be to 
wheelspin. Higher values will activate the Traction Control
system with smaller amounts of wheelspin, while lower values
will allow slightly more wheelspin prior to activating the system.
This value can be changed in the F8 black box while driving.
THROTTLE SHAPE
The Throttle Shape setting will adjust how linear the torque delivery 
is based on the throttle pedal position. Setting “1” is purely linear, 
with a given percent of throttle delivering a similar percentage of 
max torque (25% throttle = 25% torque). As settings are increased 
the torque delivery becomes more non-linear, similar to a butterfly-
style throttle: less torque increase at very low and very high throttle 
percentage and more torque increase in the throttle’s mid-range. 
This will change the feel of the car when throttle is initially applied 
and is a good tool for drivers with various driving styles.
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the gear ratios in the transmission. Two choices 
are available: Short and Long. The Short setting will choose a more 
acceleration-focused gear set for tracks with shorter straights or 
slower corners, while the Long option will choose gears more suited 
to high-speed tracks with long straights.
SPEED IN 1ST-7TH
Each of the transmission’s seven forward gears will show
the approximate ground speed at which the engine will reach
maximum RPM. These values will change based on which
Gear Stack is selected, but the true maximum speed may
differ slightly due to on-track conditions.
COAST/DRIVE RAMP ANGLES
Coast and Drive Ramp Angles affect the force exerted by the 
differential to keep both driven tires locked together under 
acceleration. Lower values produce more locking force, and more 
locking force increases understeer during braking and acceleration 
phases. Higher values will produce less locking force and induce 
oversteer in these situations.
CLUTCH FRICTION PLATES
The number of clutch faces affect how much overall force is applied 
to keep the differential locked. Treated as a multiplier, adding more 
faces produces increasingly more locking force.
PRELOAD
The differential can be set with a static load applied. Higher values 
produce more locking force in the differential in all conditions, 
producing more understeer under acceleration and deceleration. 
This value will also affect mid-corner performance, with higher 
values not allowing the differential to unlock as much, increasing 
mid-corner understeer.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | SETUP TIPS 
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
PROVIDED SETUPS
AERODYNAMIC HEIGHT TARGETS
BASELINE
A slightly more stable version of the high downforce setup for a 
driver’s first time in the car or for those wanting more stability than 
the high downforce setup provides.
HIGH DOWNFORCE
For use at most tracks. Although quite efficient and creating the 
most downforce, this setup also makes the most drag.
MEDIUM DOWNFORCE
For use at track with long straights like Spa. Sacrificing more 
downforce and efficiency for more straight line speed.
LOW DOWNFORCE
For use at Le Mans. Lowest drag and downforce trim.
DAYTONA
A variation of the Low Downforce setup for use at Daytona with 
changes to avoid bottoming on the oval banking.
DAYTONA 24H
A variation on the Daytona setup made specifically with time of year, 
expected weather, and the demands of a 24 hour race setup in mind.
The Porsche 963 generates the most downforce with an average 
rear ride height around 45mm and an average front ride height 
around 25mm.
More rake (high rear ride heights compared to front ride heights) 
will move aero balance forward (oversteer) and less rake will 
do the opposite.
You can affect the dynamic ride heights (without changing the roll 
stiffness) on track by adjusting the front heave spring and the rear 
third spring.
FIXED
The high downforce setup with limited fuel for the official
IMSA fixed series.
FIXED QUAL
The fixed series setup with qualifying fuel and hybrid deployment.
FIXED LEMANS
The low downforce setup with limited fuel for the official
IMSA fixed series.
FIXED LEMANS QUAL
The fixed LDF series setup with qualifying fuel and
hybrid deployment.
FIXED DAYTONA
The Daytona setup with limited fuel for the official IMSA fixed series.
FIXED DAYTONA QUAL
The Daytona series setup with qualifying fuel and
hybrid deployment.
A soft rear third spring will allow the rear of the car to drop under 
aero load but you will lose some amount of downforce and efficiency 
mid corner as the rear ride heights will be well under the target rear 
heights for maximum efficiency (45mm). Some compromises will 
need to be made regarding drag/downforce and dynamic 
aero balance.
There are 12 iRacing setups provided for the PORSCHE 963 GTP:
The fuel level in all setups (except the fixed IMSA setups) are set to 89 L, which is the maximum tank capacity for this car.

--- PAGE 26 ---

26
PORSCHE 963 GTP | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 963 GTP | SETUP TIPS
REAR WING ADJUSTMENT
HEIGHT ADJUSTMENTS
REAR DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENT
Should you choose to make adjustments to the setup the easiest 
way to change the balance of the setup is through adjustment of 
the rear wing angle. Generally speaking if you find you want to 
adjust wing position in more than a click in either direction it is 
recommended you start from one of the other downforce trim setups 
(high, medium, or low).
If you would like to change the aero balance without changing the 
downforce/drag trim adjust the rear ride height by increasing or 
decreasing the rear pushrod length offset.This will affect balance 
just about everywhere as we are making a lot of downforce but this 
will be particularly noticeable in mid and high speed corners.
The rear differential is a powerful tool in the Porsche. Feel free to 
experiment with the various settings. The simplest change one can 
make is increasing or decreasing the preload. While adjusting the 
preload will affect the on throttle behavior you will probably notice 
more of a change on entry and turn in.
Lower wing angle = More oversteer, less downforce and higher 
straight line speed.
Higher wing angle = More understeer, more downforce and lower 
straight line speed.
Lower pushrod length offset = Lower rear ride height, less rake, a 
more rearward aero balance (understeer).
Higher pushrod length offset = Higher rear ride height, more rake, a 
more forward aero balance (oversteer).
More preload = Less rotation off throttle, more stability on entry.
Less preload = More rotation off throttle, less stability on entry.