--- PAGE 1 ---

1
PORSCHE 911 
GT3 R (992)
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tires » 14
 Front » 16
Chassis » 16
 Aero Balance Calculator » 15
Tires & Aero » 14 
 In-Car Dials » 17
 Front Corners » 18 
 Rear » 20
 Rear Corners » 19
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 21
 Gears / Differential » 20

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Dear iRacing User,
The latest in a long line of Porsche 911s built for sports car racing, the 992-spec edition of the Porsche 
911 GT3 R follows in the footsteps of the 991-based GT3 R that debuted for the 2019 racing season. It 
also joins the current model of the Porsche 911 GT3 Cup car, which debuted in 2021, as a racing Porsche 
based on the 992 generation. In its inaugural IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship season, five 
teams—Pfaff Motorsports, MDK Motorsports, Wright Motorsports, AO Racing Team, and Kelly-Moss with 
Riley—have all brought at least one 992 to the grid across the GTD and GTD Pro divisions.
The 911 GT3 R (992) is powered by a 4.2-liter Porsche flat-six engine, a step up in displacement from the 
4.0-liter units in the previous car. Its first IMSA win came at the hands of Pfaff’s GTD Pro squad of Klaus 
Bachler, Patrick Pilet, and Laurens Vanthoor in the 2023 12 Hours of Sebring, and the duo of Bachler and 
Pilet backed it up the next month with a third place finish on the streets of Long Beach. Kelly-Moss with 
Riley took the car’s first GTD podium at Sebring as well with Alec Udell, Julien Andlauer, and David Brule.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off 
of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE-WISHBONE FRONT, 
MULTILINK REAR SUSPENSION.
WATER-COOLED FLAT 6 ENGINE
LENGTH
4619 mm
181.8 in
WIDTH
2050 mm
80.7 in
WHEELBASE
2507 mm
98.7 in
DRY WEIGHT
1250 kg
2755 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1496 kg
3300 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
4.2 Liters
256.3 cid
TORQUE
375 lb-ft
505 Nm
POWER
565 bhp
416 kW
RPM LIMIT
9500
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias and Traction Control settings. While this is not mandatory, this 
will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and traction 
control systems to suit your driving style and track conditions while 
out on track.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pressing 
the clutch and pulling the “upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and 
hitting the accelerator pedal while releasing the clutch. The Porsche 
911 GT3 R (992) does not require manual clutch operation to shift in 
either direction.
Upshifting is recommended when the shift light cluster over the 
digital display is fully illuminated and all LEDs are blue.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup “baseline.sto”. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” 
on the right side of the garage.
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | DASH PAGES
RACE 1
Left Columns
MAP Current Engine Map setting, non-adjustable.
AC Current Air Conditioner setting, inoperable.
THR Current throttle pedal map setting.
FC1 Inoperable, locked to a single value.
Oil Temp Engine Oil Temperature in °F or °C.
Oil Press Engine Oil system pressure in Pounds-per-square-Inch or Bar.
Water Temp Engine cooling water temperature in °F or °C.
Water Press Engine cooling system pressure in Pounds-per-square-Inch or Bar.
TC-LA Current Traction Control level setting.
TC-LO
Traction Control “Longitudinal” setting. This is linked with TC-LA and both will show the same value based on 
the selected Traction Control setting.
ABS Currently selected Anti-lock Braking System level.
DASH PAGES
Center
Speed Current speed in Miles-per-hour or Kilometers-per-hour
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear
Tire Information
The tire information box will display live tire pressure and temperature information. Pressures are shown in the 
center in Pounds-per-square-inch or Kilopascals, temperatures are shown in the outer corners in °F or °C.
Right Columns
Lap Current lap number
Laptime Previously completed lap time
Time Diff Time difference between the current lap and the session best lap.
Pred. Time Predicted lap time for the current lap
Brake Bias
Current Brake Bias setting, displayed as an offset from 50%. For example, if the brake bias is set to 54% 
this will display 4.00, while a 48% brake bias will display -2.00. When changing the Brake Bias, a graphical 
bar will appear on the right side of the display giving an indication of how far forward or rearward the Bias 
is currently set.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | DASH PAGES
Top Row
Fuel Used Amount of fuel used since leaving pit road, in US gallons or liters
Fuel p. Lap Amount of fuel used during the previous lap, in US gallons or liters
Fuel Press Current fuel system pressure in psi or bar
Fuel Level Current amount of fuel in the fuel tank, in US gallons or liters
RACE 2
QUAL
The Race 2 page is the same as the Race 1 page, however the data group on the left side has changed to display fuel system information.
Top Row
Lap Time The engine and fuel information is replaced with a laptime display showing the previously completed lap time
Time Diff
The laptime information cluster is replaced with a split time display and a graphical split bar to show how the 
current lap relates to the fastest lap of the session
The Qualifying page removes most of the data from the screen, replacing it with laptime and split information.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
VALUE CHANGE
When the pit road limiter is enabled the dash will feature a large 
green overlay with the currently selected gear, vehicle speed, and 
the pit road speed limit. In addition, the wheel spin/lock LED clusters 
Whenever a driver-controlled value is changed (ABS, TC, etc.) the 
right side of the display will show a blue overlay box with the value 
will illuminate in green and the speed indicator at the top of the dash 
will change to engine RPM. Should the speed exceed the pit road 
speed limit, this overlay will change from green to red.
being changed and the value itself. This will clear shortly after the 
final change has been made.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
Should the amount of fuel in the tank drop below 10 Liters a red 
warning overlay will appear on the right side of the dash. Along with 
this warning, the lower-most LED lights on the display’s side clusters 
will illuminate in red.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | DASH PAGES
Across the top of the display is a set of LED shift lights that indicate 
when the engine RPM has reached the optimum shift point.
SHIFT LIGHTS
LED CLUSTERS
As RPM increases the LEDs will light up from the outside to the 
inside (green to red), converging just prior to the ideal shift point.
When the ideal shift point has been reached, all shift light LEDs 
will change to blue and begin flashing.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | DASH PAGES
TC/ABS INDICATORS
A pair of LED strips on either side of the dash provide a visual 
display of the Traction Control system attempting to control rear 
wheelspin on throttle and front or rear lockups under braking. 
Whenever the Traction Control system is active and attempting to 
control wheelspin the side clusters will be illuminated in blue. 
Whenever either the front or rear wheels lock under braking the side 
clusters will split and show pink for a front axle lockup and yellow 
for a rear axle lockup. These LEDs also show the severity by how 
many LEDs are illuminated: One LED shows relatively small or initial 
locking while all four LEDs indicates severe or complete axle lockup.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
 STARTING PRESSURE
This sets the air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the 
world. Lower pressures will produce more mechanical grip with more 
rolling drag and heat buildup, while higher pressures will reduce 
heat buildup and rolling drag, but will also reduce the available grip. 
Generally, higher pressures will perform better at tracks with high 
speeds and high loads while slower tracks with tighter corners will 
see better performance out of lower tire pressures.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
The Last Hot Pressure displays the air pressure in the tire when the 
car is returned to the garage. The difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures can be used to identify how the car is progressing 
through a run in terms of balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a 
larger difference between Cold and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that 
are worked in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate 
to prevent a change in handling balance over the life of the tire, so 
Cold pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at 
similar pressures once up to operating temperature.
TIRES & AERO
TIRES
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits or 
the driver has gotten out of the car. Wheel Loads and the amount of 
work a tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, 
and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done 
by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for 
analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on 
track. These values are measured in three zones across the tread of 
the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer relative to the chassis centerline.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits or the driver has gotten out of the car. Tire wear is very 
helpful in identifying any possible issues with alignment, such as one 
side of the tire wearing excessively, and can be used in conjunction 
with tire temperatures to analyze the car’s handling balance. These 
values are measured in the same zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool used to display the car’s approximate 
aerodynamic values in a given configuration. Changing the rear wing 
angle and applying the on-track ride height will display the car’s 
aerodynamic balance when it is at speed and give an idea for how 
the car may behave in certain configurations. This calculator can 
also be used to determine what changes need to be made to the 
car to alleviate aerodynamically-induced handling issues, such as 
ride height changes to restore a given downforce balance for a wing 
angle change.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry 
at any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at 
Speed” setting.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry 
at any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at 
Speed” setting.
WING SETTING
Changing the Rear Wing Setting will alter the angle of attack of the 
rear wing assembly. Higher angles will increase downforce and shift 
aero balance rearward but will also increase drag. Lower angles 
will reduce drag and downforce while shifting aero balance forward. 
It’s very important to tune the Rear Wing angle to suit the track 
characteristics for optimum performance: Higher-speed tracks will 
usually benefit from the reduced drag of a lower wing angle while 
slower, twisty tracks will see better performance with a high wing 
angle and increased downforce. This setting in the Aero Calculator 
is linked to the Wing Setting angle in the Rear section of the chassis 
page and changing either setting will also change the other.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
Front Downforce is how much of the car’s total downforce is over 
the front axle, displayed as a percentage. A higher percentage value 
indicates an increase in front downforce, increasing oversteer in 
mid- to high-speed corners. A lower percentage value indicates an 
increase in rear downforce, increasing understeer in mid- to high-
speed corners.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
FARB SETTING
The FARB (Anti-Roll Bar) Setting alters the stiffness of the front 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB setting value will increase the 
roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical understeer. This can also, in some cases, 
lead to a more responsive steering feel from the driver at initial 
steering input. Conversely, reducing the ARB setting will soften the 
suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical 
understeer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from the 
steering, but grip across the front axle will increase.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of the 
tires. Toe-out will destabilize the car in a straight line but this will 
increase turn-in response at the cost of increased tire temperature 
and wear. Reducing toe-out (and even running toe-in) will stabilize 
the car in a straight line and reduce temperature and wear, but could 
make the car sluggish in response to steering inputs.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car 
leaves the garage.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the total weight of the car, displayed in 
percent. This is adjusted via the corner spring preload adjustments 
(Front and Rear Spring Perch Offset). This value should be around 
50% for most tracks.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels. 
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DISPLAY PAGE
The Display Page setting sets which page the digital dash display 
will show when the car is loaded into the world.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent 
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force 
to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a 
given situation.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
This setting alters how much the Traction Control system will cut 
engine torque to prevent wheelspin in heavy throttle application 
or low-grip conditions. Higher values will be more aggressive with 
torque cut to reduce wheelspin while lower values will allow slightly 
more wheelspin before intervening. Setting this value to “0” will 
disable the Traction Control. This value is adjustable from the in-car 
F8 black box
THROTTLE MAP SETTING
There are 3 settings on this car. They can be adjusted to suit driving 
style and track conditions. Position 1 has a butterfly shape where 
small pedal movements result in proportionately less engine torque. 
This can help prevent wheelspin when modulating the pedal in low 
speed or low grip situations. Position 3 is linear - 50% pedal position 
results in 50% of maximum possible torque. Position 2 is halfway 
between linear and butterfly.
NIGHT LED STRIPS
This changes the color of the LED light strip around the outside of 
the rear side windows, useful for identifying a specific car on-track 
when multiple cars share the same livery. This has no effect on 
vehicle performance.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset settings.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing the front ride height will decrease overall downforce 
and shift the aerodynamic balance rearward, but will decrease 
drag slightly. Conversely, reducing front ride height will increase 
downforce and shift aero balance forward while slightly increasing 
overall drag.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at a corner of the car by changing the 
installed position of the spring’s upper perch. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will reduce spring preload, lowering the corner of the 
car. Reducing the spring perch offset will increase spring preload 
and raise the corner of the car. These changes should be kept 
symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same corner 
ride heights and no change in cross weight.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how much 
force (Pounds or Newtons) is required to compress the spring 
a specific distance. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front 
end, stiffer springs can keep the front splitter from moving too much 
under increasing aerodynamic loads but will decrease mechanical 
grip and can lead to understeer in slower corners. Softer springs 
will result in more front end movement, which can hurt aerodynamic 
performance, but will increase mechanical grip in the front axle 
and reduce understeer (or cause oversteer, in extreme cases) 
when cornering.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Raising the rear ride height will increase overall downforce and shift 
aero to the front of the car but will increase drag. Decreasing rear 
ride height will do the opposite, with aero shifting rearward and 
overall downforce and drag decreasing.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this setting 
applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. Decreasing 
the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its 
corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing 
the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a 
given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, for 
example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s aero platform better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, but will cause the car’s aerodynamic 
platform to suffer. 
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Higher rear camber values can 
increase cornering stability but reduce straight-line stability under 
braking, while lower rear camber values can often increase traction 
out of low-grip corners.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
RARB SETTINGS
The RARB (Anti-Roll Bar) Setting alters the stiffness of the rear 
suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB setting value will increase 
the roll stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll 
but increasing mechanical oversteer. Conversely, reducing the ARB 
setting will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but 
decreasing mechanical oversteer.
TOTAL TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the rear end, adding toe-in will increase straight-
line stability but may hurt how well the car changes direction.
WING SETTING
Changing the Rear Wing Setting will alter the angle of attack of the 
rear wing assembly. Higher angles will increase downforce and shift 
aero balance rearward but will also increase drag. Lower angles 
will reduce drag and downforce while shifting aero balance forward. 
It’s very important to tune the Rear Wing angle to suit the track 
characteristics for optimum performance: Higher-speed tracks will 
usually benefit from the reduced drag of a lower wing angle while 
slower, twisty tracks will see better performance with a high wing 
angle and increased downforce. This setting on the Chassis page is 
linked to the Wing Setting angle in the Aero Calculator and changing 
either setting will also change the other.
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
GEAR STACK
There are three options for the six forward transmission gear stacks 
to help tailor the car’s acceleration and top speed for various circuit 
types. The “Short Stack” installs a gear set to provide the best 
acceleration but lowest top speed, best for high-downforce tracks 
where speeds stay under 255kph (160mph). The “FIA” stack is good 
for medium downforce tracks with speeds under 270kph (170mph). 
The “Daytona” stack is for lower-downforce tracks where top speed 
is crucial and acceleration can be sacrificed.
FRICTION FACES
Changing the number of clutch plates, or friction faces, in the 
differential will multiply the force produced by the differential to 
keep the rear axle locked. Higher numbers of faces will multiply the 
forces relative to the lowest setting of 4 friction faces. For example, 
8 faces will have twice as much force as 4 plates, while 6 plates will 
have 1.5 times the forces of 4 plates.
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behavior as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock shaft is moving 
at relatively low speeds, usually during movement caused by driver 
input (steering, braking, & throttle) and typical cornering forces. 
Lower values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly. 
On the front axle, increasing Low Speed Compression (lower value 
settings) can induce understeer while braking and during the turn-
in phase, with the effect ending through the center of the corner. 
Increasing Low Speed Compression (lower value settings) on the 
rear axle will aid in traction and forward drive when throttle is 
applied out of a corner.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION
High Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Lower compression values will cause the suspension to 
be stiffer in these situations, while higher values will reduce the 
damping forces and allow the suspension to absorb these bumps 
better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track and 
risk the bottom of the chassis coming into contact with the track 
surface. For very large bumps a lower click setting on High Speed 
Compression can resist suspension compression and raise the 
chassis to clear the bump and prevent grounding the chassis.
LOW SPEED REBOUND
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Lower rebound values will increase damping 
forces and resist expansion of the shock, higher click values will 
allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound forces (lower 
click values) can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result 
in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t expand 
fast enough to maintain proper contact with the track. Excessive 
rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel 
bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying in contact.
On the front axle, increasing Low Speed Rebound forces (lower 
click values) can induce understeer on throttle application. 
Increasing Low Speed Compression (lower click values) on the 
rear axle can stabilize the car under braking and also induce 
understeer at initial turn-in.
HIGH SPEED REBOUND
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension following large 
bumps and curb strikes. Lower clicker values will reduce how 
quickly the shock will expand, while higher values will allow the 
shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an 
effect on handling in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound 
can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and 
uncontrolled oscillations if set improperly.