--- PAGE 1 ---

1
PORSCHE 911 
CUP (992.2)
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
 
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 13
Chassis » 13
Tires » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 14
 Front Corners » 15 
 Rear Corners » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup Tips » 18
SETUP TIPS
 Rear » 17

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Porsche 911 Cup (992.2)! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your continued support, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE FRONT, 
MULTI-LINK REAR
NATURALL Y-ASPIRATED FLAT-SIX
LENGTH
4600 mm
181.1 in
WIDTH
1920 mm
75.6 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
358 CID
TORQUE
347 lb-ft
470 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8,750 RPM 
POWER
520 bhp
388 kW
WHEELBASE
2469 mm
97.2 in
DRY WEIGHT
1288 kg
2866 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1481 kg
3266 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. A clutch is necessary when 
coming to a stop to prevent stalling the engine and shifting into 
reverse if necessary, but the clutch isn’t required once the vehicle is 
in motion for upshifts or downshifts. Upshifting can be done without 
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
lifting off the throttle, however downshifting will require a small 
throttle blip to unload the transmission. If you downshift too early, 
or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and engine 
speed will be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear and a 
possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
RACE 1 DASH CONFIGURATION
Left Column
ABS Current ABS Setting
TC Current Traction Control System setting
DIM Inoperable
ATH Current Throttle Pedal Map setting
MUL Inoperable
Oil Temp Engine Oil Temperature in °F or °C
Oil Press Engine Oil system pressure in Pounds-per-square-Inch or Bar
Water Temp Engine cooling water temperature in °F or °C
Water Press Engine cooling system pressure in Pounds-per-square-Inch or Bar
Right Column
Lap Current lap number
Laptime Previously completed lap time
Time Diff Time difference between the current lap and the session best lap
Pred. Time Predicted lap time for the current lap
Brake Bias
Current Brake Bias setting, displayed as an offset from 50%. For example, if the brake bias is set to 54% 
this will display 4.00, while a 48% brake bias will display -2.00. When changing the Brake Bias, a graphical 
bar will appear on the right side of the display giving an indication of how far forward or rearward the Bias is 
currently set.
Tire Indicator The upper-right box displays the current tire fitted to the car
ABS Indicator If the ABS system is disabled, a red triangle warning indicator will illuminate on the right side of the display.
Center Column
Speed Current speed in Miles-per-hour or Kilometers-per-hour
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear
Tyre Info
Current tire pressures in Pounds-per-square-inch or Kilopascals is displayed in the center, tire surface 
temperatures are shown in the outer corners in °F or °C

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
RACE 2 DASH CONFIGURATION
Left Column
Fuel Used Amount of fuel used since leaving pit road, in US gallons or liters
Fuel p. Lap Amount of fuel used during the previous lap, in US gallons or liters
Fuel Press Current fuel system pressure in psi or bar
Fuel Level Current amount of fuel in the fuel tank, in US gallons or liters
Right Column
Lap Current lap number
Laptime Previously completed lap time
Time Diff Time difference between the current lap and the session best lap
Pred. Time Predicted lap time for the current lap
Brake Bias
Current Brake Bias setting, displayed as an offset from 50%. For example, if the brake bias is set to 54% 
this will display 4.00, while a 48% brake bias will display -2.00. When changing the Brake Bias, a graphical 
bar will appear on the right side of the display giving an indication of how far forward or rearward the Bias is 
currently set.
Tire Indicator The upper-right box displays the current tire fitted to the car
ABS Indicator If the ABS system is disabled, a red triangle warning indicator will illuminate on the right side of the display.
Center Column
Speed Current speed in Miles-per-hour or Kilometers-per-hour
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear
Tyre Info
Current tire pressures in Pounds-per-square-inch or Kilopascals is displayed in the center, tire surface 
temperatures are shown in the outer corners in °F or °C
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | DASH PAGES
The Race 2 page is the same as the Race 1 page, however the data group on the left side has changed to display fuel system information.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
QUALI DASH CONFIGURATION
SHIFT LIGHTS
Left Column
Lap Time The engine and fuel information is replaced with a laptime display showing the previously completed lap time
Right Column
Lap Diff
The laptime information cluster is replaced with a split time display and a graphical split bar to show how the 
current lap relates to the fastest lap of the session
Center Column
Speed Current speed in Miles-per-hour or Kilometers-per-hour
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear
Tyre Info
Current tire pressures in Pounds-per-square-inch or Kilopascals is displayed in the center, tire surface 
temperatures are shown in the outer corners in °F or °C
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | DASH PAGES
The Qualifying page removes most of the data from the screen, replacing it with laptime and split information.
A row of multi-colored LEDs provide a visual representation of 
the engine’s RPM and indicate when the engine has reached the 
optimum point for shifting. When all the LEDs at the top of the dash 
display flash blue, shift up. This is at 7900 rpm for 1st gear, 8200 
rpm for 2nd gear, 8400 rpm for 3rd gear, 8500 rpm for 4th gear and 
8600 rpm for 5th gear. 6th gear has specific behaviour to indicate 
approach to maximum allowable engine speed. Lights in the green 
region are considered ‘safe’. Engine speeds above 8750 rpm are 
permitted for tracks with extraordinarily long straights in 6th gear 
only but will reduce the service life of the engine. Blue flashing 
lights in 6th gear indicate 9000 rpm and the maximum allowable 
engine speed.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
WHEEL LOCK INDICATORS
TRACTION CONTROL ACTIVATION LIGHTS
When the pit limiter is active the data displays in the center will be 
replaced by a large box featuring the selected gear in the center 
and the vehicle speed on the right. If the speed is at or under the pit 
road speed limit the box will be green and if the speed is above the 
Should one of the wheels begin locking under heavy braking while 
the ABS system is disabled, status lights on the sides of the display 
will illuminate to signal which wheel is locking. The front wheels are 
When the traction control system is active, a cluster of blue LEDs 
on either side of the instrument binnacle. This overrides any wheel 
lockup lights that may be active at the time.
pit road speed limit the box will be red. Since vehicle speed is shown 
in the center area, the box at the top of the display that normally 
shows speed is replaced by Engine RPM.
represented by magenta LEDs and the rear wheels are represented 
by yellow LEDs.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of 
the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
TIRES 
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
FRONT BRAKE PAD MU
The Front Brake Pad Mu setting selects the brake pads installed 
in the front brake system. Mu is a numerical representation of the 
amount of friction the pads can produce, thus a higher Mu value 
will result in more friction and greater braking capability. Higher Mu 
values will also increase the risk of locking and can be more difficult 
for the driver to modulate, while lower Mu values will reduce the risk 
of a lockup due to reduced braking capability. For more information, 
see the “Setup Tips” section at the end of this guide
ARB SETTING
The Anti-Roll Bar stiffness can be tuned using the front ARB Setting 
in the garage. Seven settings are available, with 1 being the softest 
setting, 6 being the stiffest, and setting 7 being slightly softer than 
setting 6 due to how the ARB is installed. Stiffer settings will induce 
understeer and increase stability in high-speed cornering while 
softer settings will reduce understeer. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in 
will reduce the slip and increase straight-line stability.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded 
into the world
FUEL LOW WARNING
Sets the fuel level at which a “Low Fuel” warning will be displayed 
to the driver.
FRONT WEIGHT
The vehicle’s Front Weight value is the percentage of total vehicle 
weight on the front tires. This represents a rough approximation of 
the longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has a 
direct influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle and low-
speed handling balance. Higher Nose Weight values result in a more 
directionally-stable vehicle, good for low-grip tracks and situations 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. Three options are 
available as previously described in the dash configuration section 
of this manual.
TC MODE
The TC Mode setting switches between a set of parameters to tailor 
the Traction Control system to the track and weather conditions. 
The Wet setting allows less slip and will intervene more than the Dry 
setting to prevent wheelspin in wet racing conditions. This is set 
automatically based on the tires installed on the car and will change 
during a pitstop if the tire type is changed during a race.
ABS SETTING
The ABS Setting sets how much the Anti-Lock Braking System will 
intervene to prevent wheel lockups when braking. Setting “1” will 
provide the least amount of support while setting “11” will provide 
the most, setting “0” will disable the ABS system.
TC SETTING
The TC Setting controls how much the Traction Control system will 
intervene to prevent wheelspin under acceleration. Setting “1” is the 
least amount of assistance, setting “11” is the most, and setting “0” 
disables the Traction Control system.
THROTTLE SETTING
The Throttle Pedal Map can be changed to suit different 
driving styles (or weather conditions) by changing the Throttle 
Setting. Setting 1 is a more moderate throttle shape, setting 2 
is more aggressive.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in 
more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to a point on the bottom of the chassis 
project to the front wheel axis. Since these values are measured to a 
specific reference point on the car these values may not necessarily 
reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable 
value for the height of the car off of the race track under static 
conditions. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the front corners of the car by 
changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will result in lowering the corner of the car while 
reducing the spring perch offset will raise the corner of the car. 
These changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to 
right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs 
(LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Increasing front camber values 
will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to high 
speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and 
necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a point on the bottom of the chassis 
projected to the rear wheel axis. Increasing rear ride height will 
decrease rear downforce as well as reduce overall downforce, while 
increasing drag, but will allow for more weight transfer across the 
rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride height will 
increase rear downforce percentage and overall downforce while 
reducing aerodynamic drag and weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the rear corners of the car by 
changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will result in lowering the corner of the car while 
reducing the spring perch offset will raise the corner of the car. 
These changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to 
right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs 
(LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. 
Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and 
a reduction in response during direction changes. Large values of 
toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag 
and reduce straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes 
remember that the values are for each individual wheel as opposed 
to paired as at the front. This means that individual values on the 
rear wheels are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment 
at the front of the car when the rear toes are summed together. 
Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal to 
prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily 
asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in 
performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and 
other setup parameters.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
REAR BRAKE PAD MU
The Rear Brake Pad Mu setting selects the brake pads installed 
in the front brake system. Mu is a numerical representation of the 
amount of friction the pads can produce, thus a higher Mu value 
will result in more friction and greater braking capability. Higher Mu 
values will also increase the risk of locking and can be more difficult 
for the driver to modulate, while lower Mu values will reduce the risk 
of a lockup due to reduced braking capability. For more information, 
see the “Setup Tips” section at the end of this guide.
ARB SETTING
The Anti-Roll Bar stiffness can be tuned using the rear ARB Setting 
in the garage. Seven settings are available, with 1 being the softest 
setting, 6 being the stiffest, and setting 7 being slightly softer than 
setting 6 due to how the ARB is installed. Stiffer settings will induce 
oversteer and reduce stability in high-speed cornering while softer 
settings will reduce oversteer. 
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
SETUP TIPS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
TIRE PRESSURE
ARB SETTING
BRAKE PADS
WING SETTING
RIDE HEIGHT
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of default setups 
for various aerodynamic trims and race lengths. You will also find 
numerous track specific setups which are fuelled for the race length 
used in the official iRacing series at that named track. 
Should you find that a setup fails tech inspection after an adjustment 
to the fuel level, it is likely that the ride heights require adjustment. 
This is performed by using the spring perch offsets at either end of 
This moves the brake balance forwards or rearwards. This is highly 
subjective to each driver but can be adjusted while driving and easily 
based upon the reaction to driver inputs. A higher number equates 
to more braking power at the front wheels, too much and you will 
struggle to rotate the car on the brakes and encounter understeer, 
too far rearwards and the car will be unstable during the braking 
phase. The expected optimal brake bias range is in the 48-52% 
when using the delivery spec brake pads on both axles.
For all 4 corners at most tracks minimum air pressures will likely 
provide the most performance, these minimums have been set such 
that the hot pressures reach a typical real-world hot pressure target. 
However, should the track have particularly long straightaways (such 
as Le Mans) then you may benefit from increasing tire pressures 
slightly to reduce rolling drag and tire temperature generation.
Your secondary tool for mid/high speed balance adjustment and your 
primary tool for low speed balance changes. At the front of the car a 
stiffer ARB will result in more understeer while at the rear of the car 
a stiffer ARB will result in more oversteer. It is also important to note 
that the ARB ranges are not linear but are as follows: 
Front ARB (softest to stiffest) 1-2-3-4-7-5-6
Rear ARB (softest to stiffest) 1-2-3-4-5-7-6
The baseline ARB configuration is 3F/4R. 
A range of brake pads are available for the front axle while two 
options are available at the rear axle. These may be used to fine tune 
the braking feel, either by allowing more pedal input through use 
of a lower friction pad (particularly helpful when running with ABS 
disabled) or to achieve differing shifts in dynamic bias as the pads 
heat and cool during the braking phase. Please note, you should 
expect to shift your brake pressure bias by the approximate % 
difference in pad mu should you make a change. For example, a shift 
from 0.58 mu to 0.53 at the front axle may require as much as a 2.5% 
shift forwards in brake pressure to achieve a similar felt balance. 
Your primary tool for balance at mid and high speed tracks. More 
wing angle = more downforce and a shift rearwards (towards 
understeer) in aero balance as well as an increase in aerodynamic 
drag. The expected area of operation for the wing is in the 0 
to 12 degrees area with 0 degrees being appropriate for a low 
downforce track such as Daytona and 12 appropriate for a higher 
downforce track such as Hungaroring. If you wish to keep the same 
aerodynamic balance but add overall downforce to the car you will 
have to increase the rear ride height as you increase the wing angle.
At both the front and rear of the car the most performance 
mechanically and aerodynamically is achieved at the lowest possible 
ride heights while still passing tech inspection. This is 72 mm in 
the front and 106 mm in the rear. Front ride height should only be 
increased at extreme tracks such as the Nurburgring in the event of 
excessive ground contact. Rear ride height can be increased slightly 
to move the aerodynamic balance forwards for more oversteer but 
this will produce less overall downforce, more aerodynamic drag and 
reduced rear axle capability unless it is paired with an increase in 
rear wing angle. This is adjusted by moving the spring perch offsets 
as stated previously.
the car, right clicks (positive) will reduce the ride height while left 
clicks (negative) will increase the ride height. 
The Porsche 911 Cup is a car with relatively few setup adjustments 
available and is intended to put the driver front and center in 
regards to making the difference. However, should you wish to 
build your own setup, we have provided the following notes to help 
you get started.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 CUP (992.2) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER TOE-IN
For short races it is advised to run as much camber as possible at 
both ends of the car. More camber results in more lateral (cornering) 
capability while reducing longitudinal (traction and straight line 
braking) capability. Often the gains in lateral capability will outweigh 
the loss in longitudinal capability however you may find the trade off 
of running lower camber at either axle to improve braking or traction 
performance at specific tracks or in endurance racing scenarios.
At the front of the car more toe-in can result in improved mid 
corner performance but at the cost of entry stability and straight 
line braking. More toe-out will improve initial turn-in response but 
can overslip the inside tire during mid-corner resulting in excessive 
scrub. At the rear of the car only toe-in is available. More toe-in will 
result in greater stability during braking and on power movements 
however it may result in more mid-corner understeer and slower 
overall response to inputs.