--- PAGE 1 ---

1
PORSCHE 911 
GT3 CUP (992)
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 13
Chassis » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 Brakes / In-Car Dials » 14
 Front Corners » 15 
 Rear » 17
 Rear Corners » 16
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Porsche 911 GT3 Cup (992) From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate yoursupport and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE-WISHBONE FRONT, 
MULTILINK REAR SUSPENSION.
NATURALL Y-ASPIRATED FLAT-6
LENGTH
4619 mm
181.8 in
WIDTH
2050 mm
80.7 in
WHEELBASE
2507 mm
98.7 in
DRY WEIGHT
1250 kg
2755 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1496 kg
3300 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
4.2 Liters
256.3 cid
TORQUE
375 lb-ft
505 Nm
POWER
565 bhp
416 kW
RPM LIMIT
9500
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias and Traction Control settings. While this is not mandatory, this 
will allow you to make quick changes to the brake bias and traction 
control systems to suit your driving style and track conditions while 
out on track.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pressing 
the clutch and pulling the “upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and 
hitting the accelerator pedal while releasing the clutch. The Porsche 
911 GT3 R (992) does not require manual clutch operation to shift in 
either direction.
Upshifting is recommended when the shift light cluster over the 
digital display is fully illuminated and all LEDs are blue.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup “baseline.sto”. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” 
on the right side of the garage.
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in 
a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to 
do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
Left Side
DIM Inoperable
ATH Inoperable
MUL Inoperable
Oil Temp Engine Oil Temperature in °F or °C
Oil Pressure Engine Oil system pressure in Pounds-per-square-Inch or Bar
Water Temp Engine cooling water temperature in °F or °C
Water Pressure Engine cooling system pressure in Pounds-per-square-Inch or Bar
Right Side
Lap Current lap number
Laptime Previously completed lap time
Time Diff Time difference between the current lap and the session best lap
Pred. Time Predicted lap time for the current lap
Brake Bias
Current Brake Bias setting, displayed as an offset from 50%. For example, if the brake bias is set to 54% 
this will display 4.00, while a 48% brake bias will display -2.00. When changing the Brake Bias, a graphical 
bar will appear on the right side of the display giving an indication of how far forward or rearward the Bias 
is currently set.
Center
Speed Vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear
Tyre Press Current tire pressures in Pounds-per-square-inch or Kilopascals
RACE 1

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | DASH PAGES
Top Row
Fuel Used Amount of fuel used since leaving pit road, in US gallons or liters
Fuel p. Lap Amount of fuel used during the previous lap, in US gallons or liters
Fuel Press Current fuel system pressure in psi or bar
Fuel Level Current amount of fuel in the fuel tank, in US gallons or liters
RACE 2
The Race 2 page is the same as the Race 1 page, however the data group on the left side has changed to display fuel system information.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | DASH PAGES
Top Row
Lap Time The engine and fuel information is replaced with a laptime display showing the previously completed lap time
Time Diff
The laptime information cluster is replaced with a split time display and a graphical split bar to show how the 
current lap relates to the fastest lap of the session
QUALI
PIT LIMITER
The Qualifying page removes most of the data from the screen, replacing it with laptime and split information.
When the pit limiter is active the data displays in the center will be 
replaced by a large box featuring the selected gear in the center 
and the vehicle speed on the right. If the speed is at or under the pit 
road speed limit the box will be green and if the speed is above the 
pit road speed limit the box will be red. Since vehicle speed is shown 
in the center area, the box at the top of the display that normally 
shows speed is replaced by Engine RPM.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | DASH PAGES
WHEEL LOCK INDICATORS
Should one of the wheels begin locking under heavy braking, status 
lights on the sides of the display will illuminate to signal which wheel 
is locking. The front wheels are represented by magenta LEDs and 
the rear wheels are represented by yellow LEDs.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance. 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
TIRE TEMPERATURES
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given tire 
is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner and 
outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel alignment 
and the center temperatures can be compared to the outer 
temperatures to help tune tire pressure. 
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB SETTING
The Anti-Roll Bar stiffness can be tuned using the front ARB Setting 
in the garage. Seven settings are available, with 1 being the softest 
setting, 6 being the stiffest, and setting 7 being slightly softer than 
setting 6 due to how the ARB is installed. Stiffer settings will induce 
understeer and increase stability in high-speed cornering while 
softer settings will reduce understeer. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in 
will reduce the slip and increase straight-line stability.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into 
the world.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. A setting of 50.0% is generally 
optimal for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling 
in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis 
settings are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in 
more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right 
hand corners. Cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to 
the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
FRONT WEIGHT
The vehicle’s Front Weight value is the percentage of total vehicle 
weight on the front tires. This represents a rough approximation of 
the longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has 
a direct influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle and 
low-speed handling balance. Higher Nose Weight values result in 
a more directionally-stable vehicle, good for low-grip tracks and 
situations where the vehicle is set up with extra front downforce. 
Conversely, lower distribution values are good for high-grip tracks 
and configurations with high rear downforce levels. This is not 
directly adjustable, but will change with varying fuel loads.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
BRAKES / IN-CAR DIALS
DISPLAY PAGE
Currently displayed in-car dashboard page. 4 display options 
are present with 2 options intended for race situations of day and 
night and 2 for qualifying. The race options are identical in terms 
of displayed information but with differing background colour 
while the qualifying options are similar in style but display different 
information. 
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock up the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This 
should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions to 
get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from the ground to a point on the bottom of the chassis 
project to the front wheel axis. Since these values are measured to a 
specific reference point on the car these values may not necessarily 
reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable 
value for the height of the car off of the race track under static 
conditions. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, 
as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance 
as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease 
front downforce as well as decrease overall downforce, but will 
allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. 
Conversely, reducing ride height will increase front and overall 
downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the front corners of the car by 
changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will result in lowering the corner of the car while 
reducing the spring perch offset will raise the corner of the car. 
These changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to 
right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs 
(LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance. Increasing front camber values 
will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to high 
speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and 
necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a a point on the bottom of the chassis 
projected to the rear wheel axis. Increasing rear ride height will 
decrease rear downforce as well as reduce overall downforce, while 
increasing drag, but will allow for more weight transfer across the 
rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride height will 
increase rear downforce percentage and overall downforce while 
reducing aerodynamic drag and weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at the rear corners of the car by 
changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring 
perch offset will result in lowering the corner of the car while 
reducing the spring perch offset will raise the corner of the car. 
These changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to 
right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs 
(LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
As with the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative 
to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires 
are wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must 
also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where benefits 
of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out 
is the opposite. At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. 
Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and 
a reduction in response during direction changes. Large values of 
toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag 
and reduce straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes 
remember that the values are for each individual wheel as opposed 
to paired as at the front. This means that individual values on the 
rear wheels are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment 
at the front of the car when the rear toes are summed together. 
Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal to 
prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behavior; however, heavily 
asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in 
performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe 
and other setup parameters.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | USER MANUAL
PORSCHE 911 GT3 CUP (992) | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
ARB SETTINGS
The Anti-Roll Bar stiffness can be tuned using the rear ARB Setting 
in the garage. Seven settings are available, with 1 being the softest 
setting, 6 being the stiffest, and setting 7 being slightly softer than 
setting 6 due to how the ARB is installed. Stiffer settings will induce 
oversteer and reduce stability in high-speed cornering while softer 
settings will reduce oversteer. 
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is an aerodynamic device which has a significant impact 
upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well 
as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards with 
increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it is 
necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear 
wing angle.