--- PAGE 1 ---

PORSCHE MISSION R
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Secondary Display » 8
Dash Configuration » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
Tires & Control » 10 
 Main Display » 7
Tire Information » 10
 Controls » 11
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
GENERAL INFORMATION
Table of Contents
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

Dear iRacing User,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Porsche Mission R! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we 
hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
One of the automotive industry’s premier brands steps into the future with the Porsche Mission R, 
Porsche’s first all-electric GT racing car and the first-ever electric car to come to iRacing. Designed to 
match the established Porsche 911 GT3 Cup car in terms of performance, the Mission R is a preview of 
what the future of customer motorsports will look like as the racing industry continues to evolve with the 
embrace of electrification efforts.
Generating more than 800 kilowatts of power from its dual electric motors, the car accelerates from 
0-100 kilometers per hour (0-60 mph) in under 2.5 seconds. Its fast-charging capabilities allow the car to 
recharge up to 75% of its battery life in just 15 minutes between races. And in perhaps its most relevant 
innovation of all to the sim racing world, the Mission R’s self-contained, monocoque-type driver cell can be 
used outside of the car as a simulator—giving drivers an opportunity to test in the virtual world in the same 
environment they’ll utilize in the real one.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off of 
the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in getting up 
to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
POWER 
UNIT
CHASSIS
PORSCHE MISSION R | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT FRONT, 
MCPHERSON STRUT REAR
DUAL PERMANENT-MAGNET ELECTRIC MOTOR
ALL-WHEEL DRIVE WITH REGENERATIVE BRAKING SYSTEM
LENGTH
4326 mm
170 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
576 Nm
WIDTH
1990 mm
78 in
TORQUE
585 lb-ft
793 Nm
WHEELBASE
2560 mm
100 in
POWER
1073 bhp
800 kW
DRY WEIGHT
???? kg
???? lbs
RPM LIMIT
27000
 
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1572 kg
3465lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
Introduction
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the 
chassis setup adjustments available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune 
the chassis setup to your preference. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click 
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may wwselect a setup for a similar track to use as your baseline. After you have selected an appropriate 
setup, get on track and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing line and experiencing tire wear 
and handling trends over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the 
car to your handling preferences.
GETTING STARTED
Starting the Mission R is very simple thanks to the electric powertrain. Pressing the Ignition button will turn on the vehicle, 
powering the steering wheel and dash display. To start the motors, simply press the Start button and the powerrain will be 
activated. The Mission R only has a forward and a reverse gear, so shifting up to 1st gear and applying the throttle will send you 
out on track. Once running there is no shifting required.
PORSCHE MISSION R / / INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the 
setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. 
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the 
garage to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 
PORSCHE MISSION R / / INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
PORSCHE MISSION R / / DASH PAGES
Dash Pages
The Mission R features two display clusters in front of the driver. The main display is housed 
within the steering wheel while the secondary display is above the steering wheel on the 
dashboard.
MAIN DISPLAY
The Main Display shows all information about the car, its current configuration, and data relevant to the current session in two 
columns on the left and right of the screen. The center of the screen shows the car’s current speed.
Left Column
T Water Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit
V Batt Battery Voltage (V)
LaptimeDiff lap time delta to best lap
Speed Road Speed (km/h or mph)
T Oil Engine oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
T Gear Gearbox oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Right Column
ABS Currently selected ABS map
TC Currently selected Traction Control map
MAP Currently selected engine map
Lap Time Last lap time
Fuel Remaining fuel (Liters or US Gallons)
1 Selected dash display page

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
SECONDARY DISPLAY
REAR-VIEW SCREEN
The center of the secondary display cluster features a large rear-view display instead of a conventional rear-view mirror. If the 
option for Cockpit Mirrors is enabled in the Options/Graphics menu, this screen will show what is behind the car. This screen is 
disabled if Cockpit Mirrors are not enabled.
ANTI-LOCK BRAKE LIGHTS
If the Anti-Lock Brake system is enabled, heavy braking events may cause the system to intervene to prevent wheel lockups. 
Whenever this intervention occurs, the horizontal LED strips on either side of the Rear-View display will illuminate in white from 
the outside towards the inside, with larger amounts of ABS intervention illuminating more lights.
LATERAL-G LIGHTS
If the car is experiencing any lateral G-forces in a corner the LED strips on the outer edges of the dash will illuminate on the side 
that is on the outside of the corner. For right-hand corners the left strip will illuminate and for left-hand corners the right strip will 
illuminate.
PORSCHE MISSION R / / DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
Advanced Setup Options
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to 
dive deeper into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup. Making 
adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to 
significant changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that 
any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion and only singular 
variables are adjusted before testing changes.
PORSCHE MISSION R / / ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
Tires & Control
TIRE INFORMATION
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When returning from the race track, the Last Hot Pressure section will display the air pressure in each tire when the car is 
stopped. This is helpful for identifying how the tires are being utilized and how the handling balance may develop and change 
through a run on the track. For example, if front pressures are building higher than rear pressures, this could be a sign that the 
front tires are being overworked and/or the car may shift towards understeer as the run progresses. 
LAST TEMPS OMI
For each tire, temperature is measured at three points within the tire tread after returning from the race track. The Outer and 
Inner values are measured at the edges of the tire and the Middle value is measured at the center of the tire. These values, like 
the Hot Pressure values, are a good indicator of how each tire is working while on track. Tires that are under heavy load will read 
as hotter while underworked tires will show cooler.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire after a run on track in percentage of a new tire’s tread level. Generally this value is used 
to identify alignment issues or when a tire is close to failure due to excessive wear.
PORSCHE MISSION R / / TIRES & CONTROL

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
CONTROLS
POWER MODE
The electric powertrain can be run in either Race or Qualifying modes, with Race mode having a lower power and torque setting to 
help the battery last through a full Race session and Qualifying mode allowing the use of the full 800kW power output but a high 
drain on the battery. Practice and Qualifying sessions will allow the use of either mode, while Race sessions will be limited to only 
the Race power setting.
BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias changes how much of the overall braking force is sent to the front or rear wheels, with the value displaying how 
much percentage is sent to the front brakes. Higher values will shift braking to the front axle, which can increase stability and 
understeer under braking but risks front-wheel lockup if ABS is disabled. Lower values will shift the braking force to the rear axle, 
which will induce oversteer under braking and help with turn-in, but risks a rear lockup and spin if ABS is disabled. This setting is 
adjustable in the F8 In-car Adjustments black box as a single-digit offset from the garage bias setting. For example, if the garage 
Brake Bias is 51% and the in-car setting is 2%, the brake bias is 53% to the front.
DRIVE BIAS
To slightly alter the handling characteristics under throttle, the drive distribution can be shifted forward or rearward. Positive 
values will shift the drive distribution to the front axle, which can induce understeer while on throttle and could cause front 
wheelspin in very low-grip conditions. Negative values will shift the drive distribution rearward, which will reduce understeer on 
throttle. This setting is adjustable in the F8 In-car Adjustments black box as the “DB” setting.
TRACTION CONTROL
The amount of traction control assist can be changed to suit various driving styles. A setting of “0” will disable the system, 
while settings 1 through 11 will increase how much traction control intervention will occur to prevent wheelspin. This setting is 
adjustable in the F8 In-car Adjustments black box as the “TC” setting.
PORSCHE MISSION R / / TIRES & CONTROL

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
PORSCHE MISSION R // USER MANUAL
ABS SETTING
The level of Anti-Lock Brake System intervention can be altered to suit various driving styles. A setting of “0” will disable the 
system, while settings 1 through 11 will increase how much the system will intervene to prevent wheel lockups under heavy 
braking. This setting is adjustable in the F8 In-car Adjustments black box as the ABS setting.
FARB SETTING
To fine tune the front suspension’s behavior, the Anti-Roll Bar stiffness can be tuned using the FARB setting in the garage. Three 
settings are available, with 1 being the stiffest setting, 3 being the softest, and 2 being a medium setting. Stiffer settings will 
induce understeer and increase stability in high-speed cornering while softer settings will reduce understeer. This is not adjustable 
while driving.
RARB SETTING
Like with the front suspension, the rear suspension’s Anti-Roll Bar can be adjusted via the RARB setting. This setting can be 
one of 7 options, with 1 being the stiffest setting, 7 being the softest setting, and settings 2-6 being intermediate settings with 
increasing stiffness for higher values. Stiffer RARB settings will induce oversteer while cornering and softer RARB settings will 
reduce oversteer while cornering. This setting is adjustable in the F8 In-car Adjustments black box as the “RARB Blade” setting.
PORSCHE MISSION R / / TIRES & CONTROL