--- PAGE 1 ---

1
SRX
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
SRX | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
Driving Tips » 8 
 Tire Settings » 10
 Front » 11
Chassis » 11
Setup Tips » 17
Tires » 10 
 Front ARB » 12
 Front Corners » 13 
 Rear » 16
 Rear Corners » 15
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the SRX! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your support and 
your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we hope that 
you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
SRX | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
SRX | TECH SPECS
INDEPENDENT COILOVER FRONT 
SUSPENSION, LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM 
REAR SUSPENSION WITH COILOVERS
ILMOR 396 NATURALL Y ASPIRATED V8
LENGTH
4825mm
190in
WIDTH
1625mm
80in
DISPLACEMENT
6.5 Liters
396CID
TORQUE
520lb-ft
700Nm
RPM LIMIT
8000RPM
 
POWER
700bhp
522kW
WHEELBASE
2641mm
104in
DRY WEIGHT
1315kg
2900lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1475kg
3250lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
SRX | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. 
Give it a bit of throttle and ease off the clutch pedal to get 
underway. This car uses an h-pattern transmission, but only 
requires the clutch pedal to get the car rolling and when coming 
to a stop in gear. To upshift, simply let off the throttle and select 
the next higher gear. To downshift, give the throttle a blip while 
SRX | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
selecting the next lower gear. Upshifting is recommended 
around 7500 rpm. If you downshift too early, or don’t blip the 
throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and engine speed will 
be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear and a 
possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. 
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
SRX | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs. Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. 
For example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely 
will not pass at Bristol. If you would like to customize the setup, 
SRX | INTRODUCTION
simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update 
and click apply. If you would like to save your setup for future use 
click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To 
access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a 
setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right 
side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
SRX | USER MANUAL
RPM - Current engine RPM is displayed in the center
Trip 1 - This odometer value shows the distance the car has traveled 
in the current session
ILMOR - Race distance remaining on the engine, in miles or 
kilometers starting from a random value, until the engine would need 
to be rebuilt. This does not affect engine performance and the sim 
does not require engine rebuilds.
WATER TEMP - Engine cooling water temperature in °C or °F
SRX | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The SRX car uses the Holley EFI digital dash display. This display provides all important information in an easy-to-read 
format using a single page. Unlike the digital displays used in other oval racing series this display operates at a lower 
framerate, around 5fps, which reflects the behavior of the display used in the real-world SRX series.
OIL TEMP - Engine oil temperature in °C or °F
Odometer - Race distance on the chassis, in miles or kilometers, 
starting from a random value
Battery - Current battery voltage
Fuel Pressure - Pressure in the fuel system, in PSI or BAR
Oil Pressure - Pressure in the engine oil system, in PSI or BAR
TPS - Throttle position

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | DRIVING TIPS
The SRX car is a unique beast in the oval-racing world, combining 
low levels of aerodynamics, high engine power, and a very low left-
side weight bias. These three traits combine to produce a driving 
experience that is very unique but highlights driver skill, patience, 
and throttle management.
LOW AERO, ALL MECHANICAL
Despite sporting a large wing reminiscent of the Superbird from 
the 1970s, the SRX car makes very little aerodynamic downforce or 
sideforce. Unlike most cars of the modern era this car was designed 
with that in mind from the start and, as a result, relies heavily on 
mechanical grip from the suspension and tires. What little downforce 
is generated is concentrated very far rearward on the car, so far 
back that the front tires can begin to unload at higher speeds and 
make the front end feel “floaty”.
Because of these characteristics, it’s very important to keep in 
mind that the extra grip provided during braking and turning from 
aerodynamics is not present. Braking distances are longer, corner 
speeds are lower, and a tendency to skew towards understeer is 
common. A patient driver who brakes early for corners, is smooth 
with inputs, and lets the tires do the work through the corner instead 
of trying to hustle the car around will find the car responding well.
Another unique aspect of the car is the low left-side weight bias. 
While short track cars can run anywhere from 54-57% (or more!) 
left-side weight, the SRX car’s symmetrical chassis has a very low 
left-side weight that comes in around 51%. The extra right-side 
weight will try to push the car off-line, especially at flatter tracks, 
and will result in lower corner speeds. When compared to other short 
track cars, drivers will often have to wait longer through the center 
of the corner to begin applying throttle or risk the car sliding off-line.
MORE POWER
The Ilmor 396 engine produces roughly 700hp, making it one of the 
most powerful oval cars on the iRacing service. This engine is run in 
both the NASCAR Truck Series and the ARCA series, and the engine 
is used, unrestricted, in the SRX car as well. To further link the three 
series, the SRX car also uses the same tires seen on the NASCAR 
Truck Series so the combination will be familiar to many.
This high horsepower and torque output combined with the low 
aerodynamic downforce and somewhat narrow tires can quickly 
become a handful to drivers who are more aggressive on the 
throttle. Traction can be lost quickly, and without warning (especially 
if the car exhibits mild understeer through the corners) unless 
throttle is applied carefully. Despite that trait, wheelspin can be 
easily managed with smooth throttle application and a good feel 
for how settled the car is on corner exit.
A DRIVER’S CAR
While it may sound daunting to pair a high-output engine with a low 
amount of grip, the SRX car is an extremely capable and rewarding 
car to drive. The lack of aero means cars can follow closely together 
without detrimental effects on trailing cars while the power results 
in fast acceleration and high straight-line speeds. The combination 
produces a driver’s car in the truest sense, and aims to showcase 
some of the best side-by-side racing on the service.
DRIVING TIPS

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
SRX | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. 
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat 
buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures. Excessively low cold pressures 
at high-speed tracks can lead to a lack of traction and excessive 
tire heat. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should 
build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling 
balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be 
adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature. 
TIRES
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR TIRES)
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
while on track. These values are measured in three zones across 
the tread of the tire. Ideally, the temperature spread across a tire 
will reflect the amount of camber (for ovals, the left side of the tire 
should always read hotter) and should never read even across the 
tire tread. Tracks with longer straights should read hotter on the left-
side edges because of the extra time spent on the tire edges, while 
tracks with shorter straights will read more even across the tread.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, but should never be prioritized over tire temperatures 
when analyzing handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BALLAST FORWARD
In order to meet minimum legal competition weights, lead blocks are 
installed within the chassis frame rails that can be moved to various 
locations in the car. This adjustment directly affects the Nose Weight 
setting (see below) and will have a large effect on the car’s overall 
handling balance, especially at high-speeds on larger tracks. 
NOSE WEIGHT 
The Nose Weight setting shows the percentage of the car’s 
weight is situated over the front axle, with higher values indicating 
more weight is on the front axle relative to the rear axle. As Nose 
Weight increases and weight is moved forward the car will tend to 
understeer while cornering and lose front-end grip, while lower 
Nose Weight values will induce oversteer and can cause a loss in 
rear-end grip. At high speed tracks this value is used to balance 
overall aerodynamic balance, so a change in chassis rake may 
require an adjustment in the car’s nose weight to re-balance the 
chassis with the aero. This value can be adjusted directly via the 
Ballas Forward option, but will also be affected by the amount of 
fuel in the car. It is very important to be aware of Nose Weight 
changes when adding or removing fuel to avoid a handling issue 
due to changing Nose Weight.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross Weight is the percentage of the car’s total weight that is 
situated on the Left-Rear and Right-Front wheels. Higher values will 
place more weight on these wheels and induce understeer while 
cornering, lower values will shift weight to the Left-Front/Right-Rear 
wheels and induce oversteer. Cross Weight is used for a multitude 
of reasons, most important being a way to control the handling in 
various sections of the corner. This value should be set initially to 
match track characteristics, with higher values being used for low-
grip track surfaces or tracks with lower banking. This will increase 
the weight on the Left-Rear tire and increase on-throttle traction, 
very helpful on this type of track. For tracks that are high banked 
or have a high-grip surface this extra traction isn’t necessary, so 
reducing the crossweight will keep the car free through the center of 
the corner without scrubbing speed.
STEERING OFFSET
Sometimes due to asymmetric wheel loading and alignment while 
on track, the SRX car can sometimes have a tendency to pull to the 
left on ovals. To counter this effect and re-center the steering wheel, 
an offset can be applied in the garage. Positive values will rotate 
the steering wheel to the right and negative values will rotate the 
steering wheel to the left. This offset will not affect the steering or 
the chassis in any way other than the steering wheel’s orientation at 
neutral steering input.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
The Brake Balance Bar setting controls the Brake Bias value, or the 
amount of braking force split between the front and rear braking 
systems. The value is a percentage of front braking force, and values 
over 50% and higher represent more pressure being sent to the front 
brakes. Lower values will shift the pressure towards the rear, with 
values under 50% sending more to the rear brakes than the front. 
This can be a helpful tool in preventing wheel lockups under heavy 
braking by shifting pressure away from the locking axle, but can also 
be used as a way to slightly alter the car’s handling under heavy 
braking. Generally, a higher Brake Bias value will induce understeer 
while braking while lower values will induce oversteer while braking.
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car. 
FRONT ARB
ARB DIAMETER
The front Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or “sway” bar) diameter will alter the 
front suspension’s roll stiffness and influence the chassis’ handling 
and responsiveness. Larger diameters will increase the roll stiffness 
and reduce body roll, but can induce understeer and potentially hurt 
front tire life. Smaller diameter ARB settings will reduce roll stiffness 
and increase body roll, but are better on the front tires and can 
make them last longer. Generally, the smallest ARB diameter that 
still keeps the front of the car flat to the race track will yield the 
best results.
ARB ARM END
The ARB Arm End setting changes the length of the right side ARB 
linkage. This can be used to either pre-load the ARB (see below) or 
cause a delay in the ARB’s engagement. Negative values will pre-
load the ARB and apply a static load to the bar when the car is sitting 
still, which will pull the Left-Front of the chassis down and raise the 
Right-Front of the chassis. Positive values will apply a pre-load in the 
other direction, pulling the Right-Front down and the Left-Front up.
ATTACH LEFT SIDE
The Attach Left Side setting controls whether the left side of the 
ARB assembly is connected directly to the suspension. Checking this 
box will attach a solid linkage between the left-side ARB arm and 
the Left-Front suspension, unchecking this box will allow the bar to 
move independently of the suspension and prevent positive preload 
values (commonly known as a “slapper”-type sway bar). See the ARB 
Arm End section for more on the effects of a detached ARB linkage 
and how it can be used.
If the Attach Left Side setting is left unchecked, positive preload 
values will cause the bar to delay engagement until the front of the 
car drops from aerodynamic and track loads. This is very helpful 
when the car is set up with ride heights above where the car will be 
run on-track, since it prevents vertical travel from loading the ARB 
and causing the bar to try and lift the nose back up on the straights 
when cornering loads are removed.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
PRELOAD
ARB Preload is a static twisting force applied to the front ARB when 
the car is stationary. Bar Preload’s effect is explained in the ARB 
Arm End setting, but this value is a numerical representation of the 
amount of load the bar is seeing while in the garage. Tech inspection 
limits exist on the maximum or minimum preload that can be applied 
to the bar and will indicate when the bar is in an illegal configuration.
can result in longer braking distances if the system is set overly 
aggressive for the amount of available grip.
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The Corner Weight displays the weight situated on each wheel 
when the car is stopped and in the garage. These values are 
crucial in determining how the car will handle as well as providing 
insight on which adjustments could be needed to alleviate handling 
issues. Corner Weights are not directly adjustable, but instead 
are dependent on almost every other option in the garage so it 
is very important to pay attention to these values when making 
adjustments. Changing a component without ensuring the weights 
return to what they were prior to the adjustment can introduce 
unexpected or undesired handling effects.
RIDE HEIGHT
The Ride Height values are a measurement from the ground to 
a specific point on the chassis. On the front end of the car these 
values measure to the lower surface on the front end of the chassis’ 
lower door frame rails, just behind the front wheels. Since various 
parts of the chassis extend below these points, the Ride Height 
values are not a representation of the car’s ground clearance, but 
instead are to be used as a reference height for setup changes.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
The upper spring perches can be moved up or down to adjust the 
suspension spring preloads, with their position represented as the 
Spring Perch Offset value in the garage. Lower values will move 
the perch down and place more load on the spring, which raises 
the ride height on that corner of the car and increases the corner 
weight. When adjusted individually these can be used to fine-tune 
the weight of a given corner, but when adjusted equally on multiple 
corners this will shift weight around the car without significantly 
altering the ride heights. 
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness value of the suspension’s coil spring 
shown in a force-per-displacement value, either pounds-per-
inch (lb/in) or Newtons-per-millimeter (N/mm). Higher values 
are stiffer springs which will resist compression more as loads 
increase, resulting in a more consistent aerodynamic platform 
but reduced mechanical grip. On the front of the . On the front of 
the SRX Car, the front springs are not always intended to be used 
as the primary load-carrying springs and should be kept fairly 
soft in order to drop the nose of the car when on the track. 
Despite this, altering the front Spring Rate can be used to 
fine-tune how aggressively the bumpstops are engaged, with 
stiffer springs resulting in a more gradual transition onto the 
bumpstops as the suspension compresses. Also, tracks with high 
vertical loads can benefit from stiffer front spring rates, especially 
on the Right-Front corner.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LS REBOUND
The front LS (Low Speed) Rebound setting changes how stiff the 
front shocks are in rebound, or when the suspension is extending, 
when the shock is moving at a lower velocity (roughly less than 2 
inches/second). This is most commonly seen on throttle application 
and corner exit, but can also occur in the corners over small bumps. 
Increasing the front rebound setting will hold the front of the car 
down better than lower settings, but can promote understeer on 
corner exit. Also, if a track is very bumpy a higher rebound setting 
can reduce front grip by not allowing the suspension to move and 
keep the tire in contact with the track. Adjusted individually, front 
rebound can also alter the chassis balance on corner exit: 
Increasing Left-Front rebound will increase traction and understeer, 
while increasing Right-Front rebound will free up the chassis on 
corner exit.
HS REBOUND
The front HS (High Speed) Rebound setting changes how stiff the 
front shocks are in rebound when the shock is moving at higher 
velocities, usually following suspension compression from a large 
bump in the track surface. While this setting won’t directly influence 
handling to the level the LS Rebound setting will, improper settings 
can result in a loss of grip for a given corner. Higher values will 
prevent the suspension from extending too quickly which can reduce 
excessive chassis movement while also giving a more solid feel to 
the driver. Lower values will allow the suspension to extend more 
freely to keep the tires in contact with the track, but can sometimes 
result in a less-responsive feel to the driver if set too low.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so 
it is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, all four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward 
(negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel 
but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as adding 
straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front than on 
the right-front will cause the car to pull harder to the left and enter 
the corner more aggressively. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front 
of the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, 
and negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is 
farther away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. Front 
toe-in effects must be considered for each wheel individually as 
well as an overall toe setting for the front wheels together by adding 
the values together. 
If the net toe-in setting results in a toe-in setting that is negative, 
the wheels are aligned to point away from each other (toe-out). 
This will result in a more aggressive turn-in response, but it can 
cause the front tires to heat up faster and potentially overheat if too 
much front toe-out is used, as well as causing the car to be unstable 
in a straight line for high toe-out values. If the net setting is positive, 
the wheels are aligned to point towards each other (toe-in). This will 
reduce heat buildup in the front tires, but can stabilize the car in a 
straight line. 
In addition to the net toe-in setting, each wheel can be adjusted 
individually to fine-tune the handling characteristics. On a left-
turning oval, toeing the wheels to the right (Toe-in for LF, toe-out for 
RF) will reduce slip angle on a given tire. If the tire is losing grip this 
can be used to reduce the maximum slip angle it sees and increase 
grip from the tire, but too much can prevent the tire from achieving 
maximum grip. Conversely, toeing a wheel to the left (Toe-out for 
LF, toe-in for RF) will increase the slip angle on a tire. If the tire is not 
working to its maximum potential this can increase grip but too much 
can overslip the tire, leading to overheating and a loss of grip.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The Corner Weight displays the weight situated on each wheel 
when the car is stopped and in the garage. These values are 
crucial in determining how the car will handle as well as providing 
insight on which adjustments could be needed to alleviate handling 
issues. Corner Weights are not directly adjustable, but instead 
are dependent on almost every other option in the garage so it 
is very important to pay attention to these values when making 
adjustments. Changing a component without ensuring the weights 
return to what they were prior to the adjustment can introduce 
unexpected or undesired handling effects.
RIDE HEIGHT
The Ride Height values are a measurement from the ground to a 
specific point on the chassis. On the rear end of thecar these values 
measure to the lower surface on the rear end of the chassis’ lower 
door frame rails, just ahead of the rear wheels. Since various parts 
of the chassis extend below these points, the Ride Height values are 
not a representation of the car’s ground clearance, but instead are to 
be used as a reference height for setup changes.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
The upper spring perches can be moved up or down to adjust the 
suspension spring preloads, with their position represented as the 
Spring Perch Offset value in the garage. Lower values will move 
the perch down and place more load on the spring, which raises 
the ride height on that corner of the car and increases the corner 
weight. When adjusted individually these can be used to fine-tune 
the weight of a given corner, but when adjusted equally on multiple 
corners this will shift weight around the car without significantly 
altering the ride heights.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness value of the suspension’s coil spring 
shown in a force-per-displacement value, either pounds-per-inch 
(lb/in) or Newtons-per-millimeter (N/mm). Higher values are stiffer 
springs which will resist compression more as loads increase, 
resulting in a more consistent aerodynamic platform but reduced 
mechanical grip. Generally the Right-Rear spring will be run stiffer 
than the Left-Rear to compensate for the lack of a rear ARB. A 
softer Left-Rear spring rate will also help to lower the Left-Front 
of the car, reducing the need for large diameter front ARB and/or 
high front bar loads.
LS REBOUND
The rear LS (Low Speed) Rebound setting changes how stiff the 
front shocks are in rebound, or when the suspension is extending, 
when the shock is moving at a lower velocity (roughly less than 
2 inches/second). This is most commonly seen on initial brake 
application and corner entry, but can also occur in the corners over 
small bumps. Increasing the rear rebound setting will hold the rear of 
the car down better than lower settings, but can promote understeer 
on corner entry. Also, if a track is very bumpy a higher rebound 
setting can reduce rear grip by not allowing the suspension to move 
and keep the tire in contact with the track. Adjusted individually, 
rear rebound can also alter the chassis balance on corner entry: 
Increasing Left-Rear rebound will increase braking stability and 
understeer, while increasing Right-Rear rebound will free up the 
chassis on corner entry.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
HS REBOUND
The rear HS (High Speed) Rebound setting changes how stiff the 
front shocks are in rebound when the shock is moving at higher 
velocities, usually following suspension compression from a large 
bump in the track surface. While this setting won’t directly influence 
handling to the level the LS Rebound setting will, improper settings 
can result in a loss of grip for a given corner. Higher values will 
prevent the suspension from extending too quickly which can reduce 
excessive chassis movement while also giving a more solid feel to 
the driver. Lower values will allow the suspension to extend more 
freely to keep the tires in contact with the track, but can sometimes 
result in a less-responsive feel to the driver if set too low.
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The Track Bar is a solid steel rod mounted to the rear axle housing 
on the left side and to the chassis frame on the right side to hold the 
rear axle assembly in place. The track bar’s left-side mount is fixed 
to the rear axle while the right-side mount can be raised or lowered 
to alter both the dynamic loading on the rear tires as well as change 
the rear suspension’s roll stiffness, with both having a large effect on 
handling characteristics.
Raising the height of the track bar will increase the roll stiffness 
of the rear suspension and free up the chassis through all phases 
of cornering. Lowering the track bar will reduce the rear roll 
stiffness and tighten the chassis while cornering. Since this type 
of adjustment alters rear roll stiffness it can have a large effect on 
the chassis’s roll attitude, so it’s important to keep this in mind while 
making adjustments.
The SRX car features a “live” track bar mount in the garage, in which 
the track bar mount value represents where the track bar will be 
when the car is loaded into the world and is linked directly to Right-
Rear Ride Height, changing in the garage as adjustments are made 
to other chassis settings. In order to prevent unintentional changes 
during adjustment, it is extremely important to pay attention to the 
Track Bar mount height and reset it as necessary!
FUEL FILL TO
The Fuel Fill To setting alters the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when 
the car leaves the garage. Most races will be shorter than what a 
full tank is capable of, so it is important to get a good fuel reading in 
practice and carry no more fuel than is necessary for a race to keep 
overall vehicle weight low.
REAR END RATIO 
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed. Generally it is good to 
gear the car to hit the engine rev-limiter briefly before reaching the 
braking zone for a corner. 

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
SRX | USER MANUAL
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
The SRX car is meant to be run as a fixed-setup car to showcase 
driver talent and skill. However, should you wish to modify the 
chassis setups for Leagues or Hosted events there are a few 
simple tips to follow to keep the car behaving well.
RIDE HEIGHTS & ATTITUDE
Generally, the SRX car will want to maintain a consistent chassis and 
body attitude as much as possible during a lap. Under braking and 
throttle this can be hard to manage due to the higher loads in these 
phases, but the car will rarely be upset by dive and squat on entry 
and exit. Through the center of the corner, aim for a visible gap 
underneath the front and sides of the car, usually 1.5-3” is enough to 
keep the car steady and clear of any large bumps. Unlike other cars 
of this era the SRX car will not gain much performance by running 
closer to the track, therefore it is usually preferable to raise the car 
enough to clear any large bumps and tune the rear heights so the 
car is roughly level, front-to-rear, through the center of the corner. 
Once this has been accomplished, other aspects of the setup can 
be adjusted with reliable results.
SPRINGS
Due to the lack of major aerodynamic contributions, the springs 
will provide most of the grip available while on track. Generally, a 
rule of thumb is to first set the springs to achieve the desired ride 
heights and body attitude, then alter the rates slightly to handle 
bumps if needed. Spring rate ranges will change based on the track’s 
characteristics, with higher-load tracks allowing stiffer springs. 
Instead of using springs to tune handling, it’s best to set the springs 
as soft as possible while maintaining the desired heights and using 
corner weight placement to dial in handling.
CORNER WEIGHTS
With the SRX car being almost entirely dependent on mechanical 
grip the corner weights and wheel loads are the single most powerful 
setup option in the garage. In many cases, a crossweight change of 
1-2% is enough to completely change how the car drives.
To adjust crossweight without introducing other issues, 
follow these steps:
• Note the current ARB Preload and disconnect the bar. Once 
disconnected, increase the ARB Arm End option to a large 
positive value, which will prevent the bar from influencing other 
adjustments while disconnected. 
 ◦ If the bar has a large amount of preload this may cause 
 the ride heights to move into illegal ranges. This is okay, as 
 they should return to legal ranges when the bar is 
 reattached and loaded.
• Using the Spring Perch Offsets, adjust the crossweight by 
making the following changes: 
 ◦ Increase Crossweight 
 ▪ Right Rear - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight) 
 ▪ Left Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight) 
 ▪ Left Front - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight) 
 ▪Right Front - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight)

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
SRX | USER MANUAL
CORNER WEIGHTS (CONT) 
 
 ◦ Decrease Crossweight 
 ▪ Right Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight) 
 ▪ Left Rear - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight) 
 ▪ Left Front - Left Click (Decrease value, 
 increase corner weight) 
 ▪ Right Front - Right Click (Increase value, 
 decrease corner weight)
• If you’re new to the setup process, keep these adjustments 
to one or two clicks at a time and watch what happens to the 
chassis. If you’re comfortable with the adjustments, multiple 
clicks (Shift-Click is equal to 5 clicks) can be made as long 
as you keep track of everything that’s changing. Always pay 
attention to the ARB preload to make sure it stays at zero during 
crossweight adjustments. If it registers a value, simply adjust 
the ARB Arm End to remove the preload and continue with 
weight adjustments.
• Once the desired crossweight change has been made, reattach 
the ARB and preload the bar to what it was initially. Following 
these steps you should now have a change in crossweight with 
almost no change in ride heights or alignment!
Deciding on a crossweight adjustment is usually fairly simple, it will 
come down to how the car is behaving through the center and on 
throttle application. If the car understeers through the center or has 
too much rear traction on throttle, decrease the crossweight. If the 
car oversteers through the center or the rear tires spin too easily on 
initial throttle, increase the crossweight.
SRX | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
It is also very important to focus on crossweight adjustments 
progressively through the corner: Start with entry and work on 
the car around the corner. It’s very easy to fall into the trap where 
the rear of the car loses grip on exit and the driver wants more 
crossweight to correct that, when the root cause is understeer 
through the center of the corner. This understeer will result in the 
driver applying too much steering input and over-slipping the front 
tires, which “bite” as steering is removed through corner exit and 
causing the rear to lose traction. In this situation, adding crossweight 
will make the center of the corner worse and potentially make the 
car “looser” on exit. This pitfall can be avoided by looking at the tire 
temperatures screen (after a steady run without spins) and noting 
whether the temperatures show hotter on the RF than the RR tire, an 
indication that the car is understeering and the crossweight needs to 
be reduced. This will often, counter-intuitively, tighten the car on exit 
and free the car up through the center.
ADJUSTING FOR WEATHER AND TIME-OF-DAY
Varying weather conditions and race start times can greatly affect 
the amount of grip available from the track surface. Hotter track 
temperatures will produce less grip and often cause the car to 
oversteer, especially on throttle, while cooler tracks will increase 
grip and shift the balance towards understeer. To correct for weather 
and track temperature changes, the only adjustment needed is 
crossweight: Increase crossweight for warmer temperatures, 
decrease it for cooler temperatures.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS
The SRX car is one of the simplest cars to work on and set up 
due to the lack of aerodynamics influencing handling balance. 
Mechanical adjustments are very sensitive and small changes can 
go a long way, so keep adjustments small and work towards a goal 
without making large overhauls to the setup. The baseline setups 
provided with the car are close to where the car would like to be run 
as far as heights and weight balance, but are tuned more towards 
mild understeer to make the car more approachable. Keep it simple, 
make small adjustments, and you should be able to get wherever 
you want to go!