--- PAGE 1 ---

1
STREET STOCKS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7 
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 9
 Front » 10
Chassis » 10
Tires & Aero » 9 
 Front Corners » 11 
 Rear Corners » 12
 Rear » 13
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Depending on the race track and its rules (and your budget), Street Stocks range from little more than a 
street car with its interior gutted, its windows removed and a rudimentary roll cage installed to a full-on 
race car with a highly-tuned engine, upgraded suspension and plastic bodywork conforming to the shape 
of the original street car. (iRacing’s Street Stock is built to the full-on race car rules).
Regardless of the specific rules, turning a street car into a Street Stock is not only less expensive than 
buying a purpose-built race car, the process of building a race car from a street car helps wanna-be race 
drivers and mechanics learn the fundamentals of race car construction, maintenance and setups. And 
learning is what it’s all about, for Street Stocks is the class to learn the basics of stock car racing.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your continued support, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
STREET STOCKS | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT 
FRONT, LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM REAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
5207mm
205in
WIDTH
2007mm
79in
WHEELBASE
2667mm
105in
DRY WEIGHT
1372kg
3025lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1520kg
3350lbs
RPM LIMIT
7600RPM
 
DISPLACEMENT
5.8Liters
358CID
TORQUE
360lb-ft
488Nm
POWER
320bhp
238kW

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, select 1st gear. Slowly release the clutch 
while applying the throttle to drive away. The Street Stock features a 
four-speed manual transmission that can be shifted without the use 
of a clutch, but it is faster to do so. To upshift, let off the throttle and 
depress the clutch, then select the next higher gear. Once the next 
gear is selected, release the clutch and apply the throttle. Upshifting 
STREET STOCKS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
is recommended when the red shift light on the dash illuminates at 
high RPM. To downshift, depress the clutch while selecting the next 
lower gear. If downshifting quickly, it is recommended to blip the 
throttle just prior to releasing the clutch to prevent a mismatch of 
engine and wheel speed, which can lead to wheel hop and a spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs. Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. For 
example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely will 
not pass at Bristol. If you would like to customize the setup, simply 
STREET STOCKS | INTRODUCTION
make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and 
click apply. If you would like to save your setup for future use click 
“Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To access all 
of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side 
of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver 
or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of 
the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage 
as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
TACHOMETER
Displays Engine RPM in 1000rpm increments. Above and to the left 
of the tachometer is the shift light, which will light up when the 
engine is at the ideal RPM for upshifting.
STREET STOCKS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The dash in the Street Stock is straightforward and conventional, featuring only three gauges and a shift light. 
 Listed from left to right on the dash:
OIL PRESSURE
Displays the pressure in the engine oil system in pounds-per-square-
inch. This should be between 45 and 65 psi during normal operation.
WATER TEMP
Displays the temperature of the water in the engine coolant system.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
STREET STOCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
STREET STOCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, 
but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require higher 
pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance 
from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track 
characteristics for optimum performance.
HOT AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should 
build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling 
balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be 
adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up 
to operating temperature.
TIRE TEMPERATURE
This represents the tire carcass temperatures (measured via 
Pyrometer) once the car has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads 
and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is reflected in 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR TIRES)
the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful for 
directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and 
Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire. Inside, middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.
STAGGER
Stagger is the difference in circumference of the left- and right-side 
tires with both front and rear stagger available as an adjustment in 
the street stock. Increasing the front stagger will increase the size of 
the right-front tire and add understeer on deceleration and turn-in. 
Increasing the rear stagger will increase the size of the right-rear 
tire and add oversteer through the center and on throttle out of the 
corner. Stagger can be set independently between front and rear to 
suit various driving styles.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
STREET STOCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as Front ARB preload. For an oval car, Cross 
Weight is one of the most influential settings for grip level while the 
vehicle is turning. Higher Cross Weight values will place more weight 
on the left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry and helping 
drive-off on corner exit, but excessive crossweight could prevent 
the car from rotating through the center. Lower Cross-Weight values 
will help the vehicle rotate and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent 
speed from being lost, however too low can result in unstable entry 
and exit.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. On the front, 
toe-out is generally preferred. More toe-out typically provides better 
turn in and straight line stability due to increased slip angle, but at 
the cost of increased tire temperature and wear.
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering 
response is in the vehicle’s steering box. This ratio can be thought 
of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one degree 
of turn on the steering box output shaft. For example, a 12:1 steering 
ratio will require 12° of steering input to rotate the steering output 
shaft 1° . A steering box with a lower ratio will feel more responsive 
to steering inputs and will require less steering input to reach the 
amount needed to navigate a corner. A steering box with a higher 
ratio will feel less responsive and will require more steering input to 
reach the amount needed to navigate a corner. 
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism off-
center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to compensate 
for chassis settings which place the wheel off center and is primarily 
a driver comfort adjustment. Positive values will rotate the steering 
wheel to the right, negative values will rotate the wheel to the left.
BRAKE BALANCE BAR
The Brake Balance Bar adjustment controls Brake Bias, or the 
percentage of braking force that is being sent to the front brakes. 
Values above 50% result in more pressure being sent to the front, 
while values less than 50% send more force to the rear. This should 
be tuned for driver preference, track conditions, and also may need 
adjustment during a race to get the optimum braking performance 
for a given situation. 
SWAY BAR SIZE
The Sway Bar Size is the outer diameter of the front sway bar and 
affects the roll stiffness of the front suspension. Increasing the 
diameter of the sway bar will result in a higher roll stiffness on 
the front suspension, helping to keep the chassis flat relative to 
the racing surface, but can also increase understeer. Smaller bars 
will reduce the roll stiffness of the suspension but can increase 
mechanical grip in the front end, increasing oversteer.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
STREET STOCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
LEFT BAR END CLEARANCE
The Left Bar End Clearance sets how far the left-side sway bar arm 
must travel before engaging the suspension and loading the sway 
bar, as in the case of a “slapper”-style bar. A positive clearance 
signifies a gap between the suspension and the sway bar arm, 
meaning the suspension must move freely before loading the bar. 
A negative value signifies the bar is in contact with the suspension 
and is being loaded, thus giving the bar a static preload. Positive 
clearances can be used to reduce bar load, especially on the 
straights to keep the front end lower, while negative values (bar 
preload) can be helpful in preventing the bar from unloading in 
situations where that is not desirable.
ATTACH LEFT SIDE
When checked, the Attach Left Side option will place a solid 
connection between the left-side sway bar arm and the suspension, 
loading the bar in all situations. When unchecked, the bar behaves 
as a “slapper”-style bar, and will only load in left-hand turns.
BAR PRELOAD
The Bar Preload is the static load in the sway bar while the vehicle is 
in the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
SKIRT CLEARANCE
The Skirt Clearance is a representation of how far the bottom of 
the front valence is from the ground. This value is essentially a fifth 
ride height requirement and must be above 5 inches to pass tech 
inspection.
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch setting.
SKIRT CLEARANCE
The Skirt Clearance is the distance from ground to the bottom of 
the door panel, or skirt. Front heights are measured just behind the 
front wheels at the lowest point on the door. Since these values 
are measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance since 
some components may be lower, but instead provide a reliable 
value for the height of the car off of the race track at static values. 
Adjusting Skirt Clearance is key for optimum performance, as they 
can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well 
as mechanical grip. While changing ride heights will affect handling, 
front heights should be set to get the car as low as possible without 
contacting the racing surface.
SPRING PERCH
Spring Perch is used to adjust ride height (skirt clearance) and 
corner weight by changing the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in 
a force per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for 
maintaining ride height and a good attitude under changing 
wheel loads, stiffer springs will maintain the car’s attitude 
better while sacrificing mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal 
with bumps better and increase mechanical grip, however this 
could cause the chassis to pitch and roll too much, hurting 
aerodynamic performance at faster tracks.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
STREET STOCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is 
important to find a balance between life and performance. For ovals, 
set the left side positive and the right side negative.
CASTER
Caster is how much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or 
forward (negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as 
the car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering 
feel but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning by loading the 
inside front tire with steering input, as well as adding straight-line 
stability. Running less caster on the left-front than the right-front will 
cause the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch setting.
SKIRT CLEARANCE
The Skirt Clearance is the distance from ground to the bottom of 
the door panel, or skirt. Rear heights are measured just in front of 
the rear wheels at the lowest point on the door. Since these values 
are measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance since 
some components may be lower, but instead provide a reliable 
value for the height of the car off of the race track at static values. 
Adjusting Skirt Clearance is key for optimum performance, as they 
can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as 
well as mechanical grip. Rear heights can be increased to produce 
more aerodynamic downforce at high speeds, while lowering the rear 
heights can help with traction in slower corners.
LEAF ARCH & BLOCK
The Leaf Arch & Block adjustment is used to change the preload 
on the rear springs, and thus change the ride height on either rear 
corner. Increasing the size of the Leaf Block will lower that corner’s 
ride height and reduce spring preload, while reducing the size of 
the Leaf Block will raise that corner’s ride height and increase 
spring preload.
LEAF SPRING RATE
Leaf Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a 
force per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining 
ride height and a good attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s attitude better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, however this could cause the chassis to 
pitch and roll too much, hurting aerodynamic performance at faster 
tracks.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
STREET STOCKS | USER MANUAL
STREET STOCKS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL FILL TO
This selects the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage.
REAR END RATIO 
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce 
acceleration but result in a higher top speed.