--- PAGE 1 ---

1
SUPER FORMULA SF23
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 6
Tech Specs » 5
A Message From iRacing » 4
 Getting Started » 6
Dash Pages » 8
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 7
 GENERAL INFORMATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Engine Page » 8
 Overtake Page » 9
 TMS Page » 9
 Tire Temps Page » 10
 Brake Temperature Low » 10
 Overtake System Active (Over 20s Remaining) » 12
 Overtake System Active (Less Than 20s Remaining) » 12
 Overtake System Reset » 13
 Overtake System Available » 13
Overtake System » 11
 Overtake System » 11

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
 Tire Data » 15
 Front & Rear Aero » 16
Tires & Aero » 15
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Aero Calculator » 17
Chassis » 18
 Front » 18
 Front Corners » 19
 Rear Corners » 21
 Rear » 23
Drivetrain » 24
 Differential » 24
 Engine In-Car Dials » 25

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Super Formula SF23! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Debuting in the 2023 Super Formula season, the Dallara SF23 is the third open-wheel car developed by 
the Italian manufacturer for Japan’s premier open-wheel racing series. From a visual standpoint, the SF23 
evolves from its predecessor by introducing new aerodynamics designed to produce more overtaking. 
From a sustainability one, the new design reduces carbon dioxide emissions in raw materials and 
manufacturing by 75% thanks to new, natural materials, while even the Yokohama tires used on the car 
use significantly more renewable raw materials while maintaining the performance of previous tires.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH PUSHROD-
ACTUATED INBOARD SPRINGS
TURBOCHARGED INLINE 4-CYLINDER
LENGTH
5233 mm
206 in
WIDTH
1910 mm
75 in
DISPLACEMENT
2.0 Liters
122.6CID
TORQUE
354 lb-ft
480 Nm
RPM LIMIT
9400 RPM 
POWER
550 bhp
408 kW
WHEELBASE
3115 mm
123 in
DRY WEIGHT
600 kg
1322 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
670 kg
1477 lbs

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake 
Bias. While this is not mandatory, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the brake bias to suit your driving while out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as pulling the 
“upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator pedal. 
This car uses an automated sequential transmission and does not 
require manual clutch operation to shift in either direction.
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
However, the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to 
downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear requested. 
If that is the case, the downshift command will simply be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are all fully illuminated. This is at approximately 9300 rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is
not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use
as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number of 
laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the 
right to name and save the changes. 
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so.
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The steering wheel for the Super Formula SF23 cars features an integrated digital display to show the driver important 
engine and performance information while on track. The display features four display pages:
ENGINE PAGE
LAP Number of laps completed (displays one less than the current lap)
TIME Previously completed lap time
REF Best lap time of the session
DIFF Cumulative splits differential time to the best lap of the current session
Gear Indicator The currently-selected gear is shown in the middle of the display in a green box
SPEED
Current speed in Miles-Per-Hour or Kilometers-Per-Hour depending on the units selected in the 
garage
FUEL
The amount of fuel burned since leaving the pits in gallons or liters, depending on the units 
selected in the garage
CAL POT POSITION
These values represent the various settings available in the car in numerical form. The only 
value that can be changed in the sim is the Orange value, which represents the current Throttle 
Shaping setting
ECT Engine Coolant temperature in °F or °C
EOP Engine Oil Pressure in psi or bar

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | DASH PAGES
OVERTAKE PAGE
OT Left
Amount of time, in seconds, available before the system is disabled for the remainder of the 
session.
ReTime
Amount of time remaining until Overtake Mode can be enabled again. If this value is non-zero, 
the system cannot be activated.
The Overtake page is the same as the Engine page, except the ECT and EOP values are replaced with information 
about the Overtake system:
TMS PAGE
The TMS page features Tire Pressure information in the center row of the display, replacing the Lap Time values on the right side of the dash 
with right-side tire pressure information. Each value (TMS FL, TMS FR, etc.) shows the current tire pressure in psi or Bar.

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | DASH PAGES
TIRE TEMPS PAGE
BRAKE TEMPERATURE LOW
A single green LED on the bottom indicates the brakes are far below optimum temperature and may be inconsistent or not as effective as 
may be expected.
The Tire Temps page shows the internal temperature of all four tires in °F or °C. These values are the current internal air temperature, not the 
temperature of the tire’s tread or surface.
LEFT-SIDE LED STATUS CLUSTER
A trio of LED lights on the left side of the steering wheel display various colors and patterns to deliver information to the driver:
A single green LED on the top indicates the brakes are close to their operating temperature but are slightly cooler than what would produce 
peak performance.
When the brakes are far below operating temperature the cluster will illuminate one LED in green to show how far below the optimum 
temperature the brakes are at a given moment:

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | OVERTAKE SYSTEM
OVERTAKE SYSTEM
The Super Formula SF23 features an on-demand Overtake system to provide an increase in maximum horsepower available. When the 
Overtake button is pressed, the fuel flow limit will increase to boost engine power by roughly 5%. This system can be activated at any time 
during a Test or Practice session (with no time limit), any time during a Race (with a time limit), but is disabled for Qualifying.
During a Race session the system can be active for a total of 200 seconds, at any time, but forces a 100 or 110-second (depending on track) 
delay between activations. When the system is active, the dash page will change to a green overlay to indicate the system is active and the 
left-side LED cluster will flash in green. This overlay will show a timer counting down how many sections the system can remain active in the 
race as well as a bar to graphically display how much activation time is left before complete deactivation.
When the system is deactivated following an activation, the display will return to the selected page and a blue/red bar will appear on the left 
side of the screen as well as the left-side LED cluster flashing purple to indicate the system is resetting and cannot be activated as well as 
the “ReTime” value counting down from 100 on display Page 2. When the bar on the left reaches the top of the screen and the ReTime value 
reaches zero (this will happen simultaneously), the system is available for activation again and the left-side LED cluster will change to blue.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | OVERTAKE SYSTEM
If a full course caution period is activated during a race, the system will deactivate (if the system was active at the time of the caution) and 
ReTime will be reset and show “100”. For the length of the caution period the system will be unavailable, but will be available immediately 
after green-flag racing resumes regardless of whether there was ReTime remaining at the start of the caution period.
As the system runs low on available time while it is active the green overlay will change to red and the left-side LED clusters that blink while 
the system is active will become red and flash in the same pattern.
Once the system is depleted, the display will return to the active display page and engine power will return to its standard output. The “OT 
Left” and “ReTime” values on the Overtake display page will both display “0” for the remainder of the session.
OVERTAKE SYSTEM ACTIVE (OVER 20S REMAINING)
When the Overtake system is activated and the time remaining is over 20 seconds the cluster will alternate left and right in green.
OVERTAKE SYSTEM ACTIVE (UNDER 20S REMAINING)
If the Overtake system has less than 20 seconds remaining before deactivation the LEDs will flash in the same pattern as normal operation 
but will show in red.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | OVERTAKE SYSTEM
OVERTAKE SYSTEM RESET
After the Overtake system has been deactivated (but while there is still time remaining for the system to be used) the LED cluster will be 
illuminated in purple and flash until the system has reset and Overtake can be used again.
OVERTAKE SYSTEM AVAILABLE
Following the ReTime reset period after the Overtake system is deactivated the LEDs will display in blue to signal the system is available to be 
used again.but will show in red.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat 
buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better 
performance from lower pressures.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold 
and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way 
should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in 
handling balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should 
be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature. Careful attention should be paid to 
the Hot Pressures to extract the most performance out of the tires 
during a race.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The temperatures measured in the garage are tire carcass 
temperatures measured within the tread rubber itself. Wheel Loads 
and the amount of work a tire is doing on the track is reflected in 
the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze the 
car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful for directly 
comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer 
temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment and tire 
air pressure while on track.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, but should never be prioritized over tire temperatures 
when analyzing handling balance.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
FLAP ANGLE
The Flap Angle setting changes the angle of the front wing’s upper 
flap elements relative to horizontal. Higher angles will increase the 
downforce generated at the front wing, shift aero forward, and 
increase drag, while lower angles will decrease downforce,
shift aero rearward, and reduce drag.
WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle setting controls the angle of the rear wing’s 
upper flap element. Higher angles will produce more downforce, 
more drag, and shift aero rearward, while lower angles will reduce 
both downforce and drag but shift aero forward.
FRONT & REAR AERO
GURNEY FLAP
A Gurney Flap, or wicker, can be installed on the trailing edge of the 
rear wing’s upper flap. This will dramatically increase rear downforce 
but with a drag penalty. Available in two sizes, the larger wicker will 
produce more downforce and drag than 
the smaller wicker.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed settings are inputs for the aero 
calculator to determine the approximate aero performance with the 
chosen aero package. Changing these values changes the displayed 
Front Downforce value as well as the Downforce-to-Drag ratio in
the calculator. To check on-track performance, use the front ride 
height sensors (Front RH) and rear ride height sensors (Rear RH) 
found in telemetry output. These can also be changed to observe 
how rake will affect aerodynamic performance prior to ride height
or spring changes.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
The Front Downforce value represents the percentage of total 
downforce that is working on the front axle. This value is calculated 
with the At Speed ride height values, as well as the chosen 
aerodynamic options, and should be monitored during the chassis 
setup process to prevent unexpected results. To ensure chassis 
adjustments don’t become masked by aerodynamic changes,
always refer to this value to ensure it remains constant before
and after aerodynamic setup changes.
AERO CALCULATOR
DOWNFORCE TO DRAG
The Downforce to Drag ratio is a relation of how much downforce 
is produced for one unit of drag. Generally, a larger Downforce to 
Drag ratio would imply the car is working efficiently and producing 
large amounts of downforce for given drag numbers, while a lower 
Downforce to Drag value is typically seen on more slippery, low-drag 
aerodynamic packages.
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear wing 
setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT result in any 
mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB DIAMETER
The front Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) is available in a 15mm (5/8”),
18mm (11/16”), or a 30mm (1 3/16”) diameter with a 3mm (1/8”) 
hollow bore through the center. Larger diameter options will stiffen 
the front suspension in roll, reducing mechanical grip and inducing 
understeer, but will try to keep the chassis flatter when cornering. 
The smaller diameter options will reduce roll stiffness, increasing 
mechanical grip across the front axle and reducing understeer,
but will allow the chassis to roll more.
ARB POSITION
The ARB position changes the orientation of the ARB’s arms.
Higher numbers will stiffen the ARB assembly and increase front roll 
stiffness, lower numbers will soften the ARB assembly and decrease 
roll stiffness. This results in the same effects from ARB diameter 
changes, with higher roll stiffness inducing understeer and lower
roll stiffness reducing understeer.
HEAVE SPRING RATE
The Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles loads 
when the chassis moves in a purely vertical direction and does 
not experience loads generated from chassis roll. The front Heave 
Spring will influence the chassis’ handling balance during braking 
and over bumps, but is primarily intended to control increasing 
aerodynamic loads with higher speeds. Stiffer Heave Spring rates 
will stiffen the suspension in vertical travel and result in a more 
consistent aerodynamic platform but can reduce mechanical grip 
over rough surfaces. Softer Heave Springs will increase mechanical 
grip but could allow too much movement to keep the aerodynamic 
behavior consistent.
HEAVE SPRING GAP
The Heave Spring Gap is the amount of compression required 
in the Heave Spring Assembly before the Heave Spring begins 
carrying any load. This can be set directly but will also change as 
a result of other chassis settings that can alter ride height, and 
thus the suspension’s static deflection. Positive values signify the 
Heave Spring is unloaded when the car is stationary and requires 
suspension compression before loading, while negative values 
indicate a preloaded Heave Spring in static conditions. Lower values 
will engage the spring sooner through suspension travel, higher 
values will delay the spring’s engagement.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
The Brake Pressure Bias setting determines how much of the overall 
brake line pressure is sent to the front wheels. Higher percentages 
apply more braking pressure to the front wheels, which can induce 
understeer under braking, while reducing the percentage will shift 
braking force rearward and induce oversteer under braking.
If the bias is set too far forward or rearward it can cause wheel 
lockups under heavy braking, so it should be set to a value that 
allows for heavy braking without lockups on either axle.
DISPLAY PAGE
This sets the default page on the steering wheel’s display when the 
car is started. This has no effect on car performance.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
Corner Weight represents the weight on each wheel when sitting 
in the garage. This can be used to visualize the weight distribution 
under static conditions and help with identifying changes to weight 
distribution through the setup process.
RIDE HEIGHT
Front Ride Height is a measurement from the ground to a reference 
point on the chassis along the centerline of the car. Since this value 
doesn’t necessarily represent the lowest point on the chassis it 
does not specifically represent the chassis’ ground clearance, but is 
instead a reference for setup and aero work. It is important to have 
the front ride height low for both aero and mechanical grip, but high 
enough that the chassis doesn’t make significant contact with the 
race track over the course of a lap. Raising and lowering the front 
ride height will affect aerodynamic balance, overall downforce levels, 
and drag, so consult the Aero Calculator to see how a ride height 
change will influence handling when changing this value.
PUSHROD LENGTH
To adjust the Ride Height, a turnbuckle style adjuster is available to 
change the effective length of the pushrods. Longer pushrods will 
raise the front of the car and shorter pushrods will lower the front of 
the car, with both front pushrods being adjusted symmetrically. 
TORSION BAR
The Torsion Bar setting changes the outer diameter of the front 
suspension torsion bars, which are used as spring elements.
Springs are used to keep the chassis from contacting the track 
under the loads seen on track and to manage the chassis’ 
aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a major influence 
on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front end, stiffer springs 
can keep the front wing from moving too much under increasing 
aerodynamic loads but will decrease mechanical grip and can cause 
understeer in slower corners. Softer springs will result in more front 
end movement, which can hurt aero, but will increase mechanical 
grip in the front axle and reduce understeer (or cause oversteer,
in extreme cases). Larger diameters will be stiffer, smaller diameters 
will be softer.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Front Bump Stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low shock piston speeds, usually in chassis movements
as a result of driver input and building aerodynamic forces.
Higher values will increase compression resistance under these 
low-speed conditions, lower values will result in a more compliant 
shock. From a mechanical grip standpoint, more front low-speed 
compression will produce understeer under braking.
Reducing front Bump Stiffness will reduce understeer at braking and 
turn-in. For aerodynamics, more low-speed compression will slow 
vertical chassis movement under braking, which can result in a more 
stable aerodynamic platform.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound Stiffness controls how resistant the shock is when 
extending at lower shock piston speeds, typically due to driver 
inputs and changing aerodynamic loads. Higher rebound values will 
resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to 
extend faster. Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic 
attitude but can result in the wheels being unloaded when the 
suspension can’t expand enough to maintain proper contact with the 
track. When tuning for handling, higher front low-speed rebound can 
increase on-throttle mechanical understeer while lower values will 
maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce understeer.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom.
Higher negative camber values will provide more cornering forces in 
the direction of the tire’s camber (more aggressive turn-in response),
but may reduce braking capability at high camber angles. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
Corner Weight represents the weight on each wheel when sitting 
in the garage. This can be used to visualize the weight distribution 
under static conditions and help with identifying changes to weight 
distribution through the setup process.
RIDE HEIGHT
Rear Ride Height is a measurement from the ground to a reference 
point on the chassis along the centerline of the car. Since this value 
doesn’t necessarily represent the lowest point on the chassis it 
does not specifically represent the chassis’ ground clearance, but is 
instead a reference for setup and aero work. It is important to have 
the rear ride height set to optimize both aero and mechanical grip 
for a given track. Raising and lowering the rear ride height will affect 
aerodynamic balance, overall downforce levels, and drag, so consult 
the Aero Calculator to see how a ride height change will influence 
handling when changing this value.
PUSHROD LENGTH
To adjust the Ride Height, a turnbuckle style adjuster is available to 
change the effective length of the pushrods. Longer pushrods will 
raise the rear of the car and shorter pushrods will lower the rear of 
the car, with both rear pushrods being adjusted symmetrically.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness of the suspension’s corner springs 
controlling each wheel. The value is a representation of how much 
force (Pounds or Newtons) required to compress the spring a 
specific distance (inches of millimeters). Springs are used to keep 
the chassis from contacting the track under the loads seen on track 
and to manage the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness 
also has a major influence on the car’s handling characteristics.
On the rear end, stiffer springs can keep the rear of the car from 
moving too much under increasing aerodynamic loads but will 
decrease mechanical grip and can cause oversteer in slower corners. 
Softer springs will result in more rear end movement, which can 
hurt aero, but will increase mechanical grip across the rear axle and 
reduce oversteer (or cause understeer, in extreme cases).
BUMP STIFFNESS
Rear Bump Stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low shock piston speeds, usually in chassis movements
as a result of driver input and building aerodynamic forces.
Higher values will increase compression resistance under these 
low-speed conditions, lower values will result in a more compliant 
shock. From a mechanical grip standpoint, more rear low-speed 
compression will produce understeer on throttle application. 
Reducing rear Bump Stiffness will reduce understeer on throttle. 
For aerodynamics, more low-speed compression will slow vertical 
chassis movement under throttle and increasing aerodynamic loads 
which can result in a more stable aerodynamic platform.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound Stiffness controls how resistant the shock is when 
extending at lower shock piston speeds, typically due to driver 
inputs and changing aerodynamic loads. Higher rebound values will 
resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to 
extend faster. Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic 
attitude but can result in the wheels being unloaded when the 
suspension can’t expand enough to maintain proper contact with the 
track. When tuning for handling, higher rear low-speed rebound can 
increase mechanical understeer under braking while lower values 
can induce oversteer under braking.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Higher negative camber values will provide more cornering 
forces in the direction of the tire’s camber (more stability in
high-speed cornering), but may reduce on-throttle traction at
high camber angles.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheels relative to the chassis centerline when 
viewed from above. Negative toe-in sets the front of the tires farther 
from the centerline than the rear of the tires while positive toe-in 
sets the front of the tires closer to the centerline than the rear of 
the tires. This setting can change the rear tire slip angle, with toe-in 
providing more straight-line stability but reducing the car’s tendency 
to rotate into a corner. Lower toe-in values (moving towards
toe-out) can provide a quicker steering response, but may produce 
an unstable steering feeling.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
This shows how much fuel will be in the fuel tank when the car is 
loaded in the sim.
ARB DIAMETER
The rear Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) is available in 15mm (5/8”) and 17mm 
(11/16”) diameters. Larger diameter options will stiffen the rear 
suspension in roll, reducing mechanical grip and inducing oversteer, 
but will try to keep the chassis flatter when cornering. The smaller 
diameter options will reduce roll stiffness, increasing mechanical 
grip across the rear axle and reducing oversteer, but will allow the 
chassis to roll more.
3RD SPRING RATE
The 3rd Spring Rate controls the stiffness of a spring element 
that works only in heave (vertical suspension travel) and can 
be set to prevent the car from dropping too far under heavy 
aerodynamic loads or vertical forces from track shape, such as dips 
or turn banking. Using the 3rd Spring in this way allows for softer 
corner springs to be used (since they won’t have to carry the full 
aerodynamic loads), increasing rear mechanical grip while cornering. 
Stiffer 3rd Spring Rates will resist vertical travel more than softer
3rd Spring Rates, producing a more consistent aerodynamic attitude
but potentially reducing rear mechanical grip when aerodynamic 
loads at low speeds.
3RD SPRING GAP
The 3rd Spring Gap is the amount of compression required in the 
rear 3rd Spring Assembly before the spring begins carrying any 
load. This can be set directly but will also change as a result of other 
chassis settings that can alter ride height, and thus the suspension’s 
static deflection. Positive values signify the 3rd Spring is unloaded 
when the car is stationary and requires suspension compression 
before loading, while negative values indicate a preloaded 3rd
Spring in static conditions. Lower values will engage the spring 
sooner through suspension travel, higher values will delay the 
spring’s engagement.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DRIVETRAIN
DRIVETRAIN
DIFFERENTIAL
CLUTCH PLATES
The differential Clutch Plates are a way to greatly increase the forces 
from the differential that attempt to keep the two rear axles locked 
in sync. The number of clutch plates used will multiply the locking 
force by the number of plates in use when compared to a single 
set of clutch plates. For example, 4 clutch plates will have 4 times 
the locking force of one plate, 12 will have 12 times the force of 
one plate, etc. Higher locking forces (more plates) will increase the 
amount of understeer seen when off the throttle under deceleration 
for corner entry, but will increase oversteer on exit when applying 
the throttle. Fewer plates will increase oversteer on corner entry 
while decelerating but add understeer when applying the throttle.
PRELOAD
Differential Preload is a static amount of locking force that is always 
present in the differential regardless of acceleration or deceleration. 
Increasing the preload will add understeer under braking but 
oversteer on throttle application, while decreasing preload will add 
oversteer under braking but understeer on throttle application.
DRIVE ANGLE
The Drive Angle alters how much force is applied in the differential 
to lock the axles together during acceleration. Higher angles will 
produce less force, inducing oversteer initial throttle application out 
of a corner, while lower angles will produce more force and induce 
understeer in these situations.
COAST ANGLE
The Coast Angle alters how much force is applied in the differential 
to lock the axles together during deceleration. Higher angles will 
produce less force, inducing oversteer under braking, while lower 
angles will produce more force and induce understeer 
in these situations.

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA SF23 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DRIVETRAIN
ENGINE IN-CAR DIALS
THROTTLE SHAPING
The Throttle Shaping option controls how torque is delivered from 
the engine through throttle pedal travel. Low settings will emulate 
a “butterfly”-style throttle with less torque given at lower throttle 
positions, a high increase in the middle portion of the throttle pedal’s 
travel, and then a slower build at the higher percentage. The higher 
values will be more linear, with a consistent increase in torque for 
each amount of pedal travel. This setting can be changed in the car 
through the “TPS” setting.
LAUNCH CONTROL RPM
When the Launch Control system is armed, the Launch Control 
RPM setting (“Start Limit” in-car setting) will change the maximum 
RPM at full-throttle while the car is stationary. This can be set to 
help reduce wheelspin at the race start for low-grip track surfaces. 
Launch Control button mappings are available in the Options>Control 
menu listed under Traction Control.