--- PAGE 1 ---

1
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 10
 Front » 13
Chassis » 13
 Aero Setup » 11
 Aero Calculator » 12
Setup Tips » 20
Tires & Aero » 10 
 Brakes / In-Car / Misc » 14
 Front Corners » 15 
 Rear » 16
 Rear » 18
 Differential » 19
 Rear Corners » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Super Formula Lights! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate 
your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, 
and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car! 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed. 
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE WITH PUSHROD-
ACTUATED INBOARD SPRINGS
TURBOCHARGED, 3 CYLINDER, 
TOYOTA TGE33
LENGTH
4934mm
194in
WIDTH
1875mm
74in
DISPLACEMENT
1.6 Liters
97.6CID
TORQUE
230lb-ft
311Nm
RPM LIMIT
7100 RPM 
7300 RPM
 
POWER
276bhp
206kW
WHEELBASE
2866mm
113in
DRY WEIGHT
587kg
1250lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
690kg
1520lbs
SOFT LIMIT
HARD LIMIT

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias. While this is not mandatory, this will allow you to 
make quick changes to the brake bias to suit your driving while 
out on track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as 
pulling the “upshift” paddle to put it into gear, and hitting the 
accelerator pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and 
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
does not require manual clutch operation to shift in either 
direction. However, the car’s downshift protection will not allow 
you to downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear 
requested. If that is the case, the downshift command will simply 
be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the 
dashboard are all fully illuminated around 7000 rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars. To 
access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If 
you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is not 
included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as your 
baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track 
and focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the 
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs. Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. 
For example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely 
will not pass at Bristol. If you would like to customize the setup, 
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | INTRODUCTION
simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update 
and click apply. If you would like to save your setup for future use 
click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To 
access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a 
setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right 
side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
Laptime - Current lap time is shown across the top of the display
Last Lap - The previously completed lap time is on the left 
of the display
Lap # - Number of laps completed in the current
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
The Super Formula Light features a digital display integrated into the steering wheel. Two pages provide information 
to the driver across two pages: Race and Diagnostics.
Gear - The currently-selected gear is shown in the center 
of the display
RPM - Current engine RPM
Water Temp - Engine cooling water temperature in °C or °F
RACE

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
LEFT COLUMN
RPM - Engine RPM
Oil P - Engine Oil system pressure in PSI 
or Bar
Rail P - Fuel system pressure in PSI or Bar
Throttle - Throttle pedal position in 
percent 
Batt - Current engine RPM
Gear - Engine cooling water temperature 
in °C or °F
CENTER COLUMN
Air T - Ambient air temperature in °C or °F
Water T - Engine cooling water temperature 
in °C or °F
Oil T - Engine oil temperature in °C or °F
Fuel T - Fuel temperature in °C or °F
Lambada - Current air/fuel mixture ratio
DIAGNOSTIC
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | DASH PAGES
RIGHT COLUMN
Diff Time - Current lap time difference 
between the current lap and the best lap 
of the session
Current Lap - Current lap time
Last Lap - Previously completed lap time

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Tires fitted to the Super Formula Light car can be changed based 
on weather conditions. The Dry option fits a slick tire intended for 
dry track conditions while the Wet option fits a treaded tire for wet 
track surfaces.
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and Hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be adjusted to 
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Careful attention should be paid to the Hot Pressures 
to extract the most performance out of the tires during a race. 
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPERATURES
The temperatures measured in the garage are tire carcass 
temperatures measured within the tread rubber itself. Wheel Loads 
and the amount of work a tire is doing on the track is reflected in 
the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze the 
car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful for directly 
comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer 
temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment and tire 
air pressure while on track.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, but should never be prioritized over tire temperatures 
when analyzing handling balance.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
AERO PACKAGE
The Super Formula Light can use one of three overall aerodynamic 
packages to tailor the car to the needs of a given circuit. High DF 
will provide the most aerodynamic grip at the expense of drag, 
Low DF will trim away a large amount of drag but will be light on 
aerodynamic grip, while Medium DF will provide a moderate amount 
of both downforce and drag. Changing the Aerodynamic Package 
may also change the wing components and their setting limits, so 
keeping track of Aero Balance before and after changing this value is 
crucial to preventing unexpected results.
FRONT FLAP CONFIGURATION
The front wing upper flaps can be set to either a High DF or Low DF 
configuration. The High DF option will increase downforce and drag 
on the front wing, the Low DF option will reduce downforce and drag 
on the front wing. If High or Low DF is chosen in the Aero Package 
setting, only the flap that corresponds to the Aero Package can be 
used (Low DF Flap can’t be used with the High DF Aero Package). 
If the Medium DF Aero Package is selected, either Front Flap can 
be used
FRONT FLAP ANGLE
The Flap Angle setting changes the angle of the front wing’s upper 
flap elements relative to horizontal. Higher angles will increase the 
downforce generated at the front wing, shift aero forward, and 
increase drag, while lower angles will decrease downforce, shift aero 
rearward, and reduce drag. 
AERO SETUP
FRONT FLAP GURNEY FLAP
A small wicker (or “Gurney Flap”) can be added to the trailing edge 
of the front wing upper-most flap. If installed, downforce and drag 
from the front wing will increase significantly as well as a large shift 
forward for the Aero Balance. Options include a 5 or 10mm wicker, 
with the larger option producing a larger effect. The wicker can also 
be removed entirely resulting in a large reduction in drag as well as 
an aerodynamic balance shift towards the rear of the car.
REAR UPPER FLAP ANGLE
The Rear Upper Flap Angle setting controls the angle of the 
rear wing’s upper flap element. Higher angles will produce more 
downforce, more drag, and shift aero rearward, while lower angles 
will reduce both downforce and drag but shift aero forward.
REAR BEAM WING ANGLE
A lower element on the rear wing situated just above the axle, known 
as the Beam Wing, can be adjusted similarly to the upper elements 
to tune overall downforce and aerodynamic balance. Higher angles 
will increase overall downforce and shifts aero rearward, lower 
angles will shift aero forward and reduce overall downforce.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a quick way to get a general idea of the 
car’s aero balance in the current configuration. Once the Front 
and Rear Aero settings have been chosen, the front and rear ride 
heights can be set to find the car’s aero balance and Downforce-to-
Drag ratio. This is very helpful for planning setup changes to either 
keep the same aerodynamic balance after a change or to understand 
how much the balance will shift with changes. Please note the 
settings chosen in this area of the garage do not affect the setup 
or on-track performance and are simply a way to understand how 
the car is performing.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed settings are inputs for the aero 
calculator to determine the approximate aero performance with the 
chosen aero package. Changing these values changes the displayed 
Front Downforce value as well as the Downforce-to-Drag ratio in 
the calculator. To check on-track performance, use the front ride 
height sensors (Front RH) and rear ride height sensors (Rear RH) 
found in telemetry output. These can also be changed to observe 
how rake will affect aerodynamic performance prior to ride height 
or spring changes.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Front Downforce value represents the percentage of total 
downforce that is working on the front axle. This value is calculated 
with the At Speed ride height values, as well as the chosen 
aerodynamic options, and should be monitored during the chassis 
setup process to prevent unexpected results. To ensure chassis 
adjustments don’t become masked by aerodynamic changes, 
always refer to this value to ensure it remains constant before 
and after aerodynamic setup changes. 
DRAG TRIM
The Drag Trim value is a representation of how much drag is being 
generated by the vehicle, displayed as an offset of the base drag 
value. Higher values indicate a higher amount of drag on the car, 
lower values indicate less drag.
AERO CALCULATOR
DOWNFORCE TRIM
The Downforce Trim value is a representation of how much 
downforce is being generated by the vehicle, displayed as an 
offset of the base downforce value. Higher values indicate a 
higher amount of overall downforce on the car, lower values indicate 
less downforce.
BALANCE TRIM
The Balance Trim value is a representation of how much the 
aerodynamic Center of Pressure has been shifted from the base 
value. Higher values indicate a shift forward, lower values indicate 
a rearward shift, but this value does not represent the actual 
aerodynamic balance for the given aero package.
DOWNFORCE TO DRAG
The Downforce to Drag ratio is a relation of how much downforce 
is produced for one unit of drag. Generally, a larger Downforce to 
Drag ratio would imply the car is working efficiently and producing 
large amounts of downforce for given drag numbers, while a lower 
Downforce to Drag value is typically seen on more slippery, low-drag 
aerodynamic packages.
AERO BALANCE
Aero Balance represents the percentage of total downforce that 
is working on the front axle. This value is calculated with the At 
Speed ride height and tilt values, as well as the chosen aerodynamic 
options, and should be monitored during the chassis setup process 
to prevent unexpected results. To ensure chassis adjustments don’t 
become masked by aerodynamic changes, always refer to this 
value to ensure it remains constant before and after aerodynamic 
setup changes

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
HEAVE SPRING
The Heave Spring is a suspension element that handles loads 
when the chassis moves in a purely vertical direction and does 
not experience loads generated from chassis roll. The front Heave 
Spring will influence the chassis’ handling balance during braking 
and over bumps, but is primarily intended to control increasing 
aerodynamic loads with higher speeds. Stiffer Heave Spring rates 
will stiffen the suspension in vertical travel and result in a more 
consistent aerodynamic platform but can reduce mechanical grip 
over rough surfaces. Softer Heave Springs will increase mechanical 
grip but could allow too much movement to keep the aerodynamic 
behavior consistent. 
HEAVE PERCH OFFSET 
The Heave Perch Offset is a way to preload the Heave Spring 
element, allowing front ride height changes without inducing any 
asymmetric loading to the suspension. Decreasing the value will 
preload the Heave spring and raise the front ride heights, increasing 
the value will unload the spring and lower the front ride heights.
HEAVE SPRING DEFL
The Heave Spring Deflection is how much the Heave Spring has 
compressed from its free (unloaded) length. This is not directly 
adjustable, but is altered as a result of other front suspension 
adjustments, especially the Heave Perch Offset setting but can 
be altered by the corner spring settings as well. Higher deflection 
indicates the spring is under higher pre-load, lower deflection 
indicates a more relaxed spring.
HEAVE DAMPER DEFL
The Heave Damper Deflection is an indicator of how much travel 
is available in the Heave element before bottoming out. This value 
doesn’t represent any loading in the suspension, only the Heave 
Damper’s position.
PUSHROD LENGTH OFFSET
The front Pushrods can be lengthened or shortened to change ride 
height without affecting the preload on the front spring components. 
Before using this adjustment, ensure both corner springs and the 
front Heave spring are set to the desired value, then adjust the front 
ride height with the pushrod length. Longer pushrods will raise the 
front ride height, shorter pushrods will reduce front ride height.
ARB SIZE
The Anti-Roll Bar (ARB) is a spring device in the front suspension 
that counteracts roll movement but not vertical loading. Changing 
the ARB diameter will alter the front suspension’s roll stiffness and 
handling balance: Stiffer ARB settings will increase front roll stiffness 
and induce understeer, softer ARB settings will reduce stiffness 
and reduce understeer. Disconnecting the bar will remove the ARB 
from the suspension entirely and can greatly reduce mechanical 
understeer, however this reduction in roll stiffness can hurt 
aerodynamic performance in high-speed corners.
ARB ARM LENGTH
The ARB Arm Length option changes how long the ARB assembly 
arms are. Longer arms result in a softer ARB assembly and less 
stiffness in roll, inducing oversteer. Shorter arms stiffen the front 
suspension in roll, inducing understeer.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
ARB BLADES
The ARB Blades (or arms) can be changed to further tune the 
suspension roll stiffness beyond only the ARB size setting. This 
option changes the orientation of the ARB blades and are given 
numerical values for simplicity, with #1 being the softest option 
and the blades becoming stiffer as the value is increased to the 
BRAKES / IN-CAR / MISC
maximum setting of #5. Based on stiffness the blade option will 
produce the same result as a similar adjustment to the ARB Size: 
Stiffer blade settings will increase front roll stiffness and induce 
understeer while softer blade settings will reduce front roll stiffness 
and reduce understeer. This setting can be adjusted in the car from 
the F8 black box using the “FARB” setting. 
DISPLAY PAGE
This sets the default page on the steering wheel’s display when the 
car is started. This has no effect on car performance.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
The Brake Pressure Bias setting determines how much of the overall 
brake line pressure is sent to the front wheels. Higher percentages 
apply more braking pressure to the front wheels, which can induce 
understeer under braking, while reducing the percentage will shift 
braking force rearward and induce oversteer under braking. If the 
bias is set too far forward or rearward it can cause wheel lockups 
under heavy braking, so it should be set to a value that allows for 
heavy braking without lockups on either axle.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into 
the world.
CROSSWEIGHT
Crossweight is the percentage of the car’s total weight situated over 
the Right-Front and Left-Rear wheels. Higher Cross Weight values 
will induce understeer in left-hand corners and oversteer in right-
hand corners. Lower Cross Weight values will induce oversteer in 
left-hand corners and understeer in right-hand corners.
GEAR STACK
Five sets of drive gear are available to help tune the car for different 
track types. Shorter gear stacks will improve acceleration at the 
expense of top speed, longer gear options will increase top speed at 
the expense of acceleration. Generally a track with tighter corners 
and lower speeds will benefit from a shorter gear stack while a track 
with high speeds and flowing corners will see better performance 
from a longer gear stack.
TOP SPEED
The estimated top speed achievable from the currently-selected 
gear stack.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
Corner Weight represents the weight on each wheel when sitting 
in the garage. This can be used to visualize the weight distribution 
under static conditions and help with identifying changes to weight 
distribution through the setup process.
RIDE HEIGHT
Front Ride Height is a measurement from the ground to point on the 
bottom of the chassis. Since this value doesn’t necessarily represent 
the lowest point on the chassis it does not specifically represent the 
chassis’ ground clearance, but is instead a reference for setup and 
aero work. It is important to have the front ride height low for both 
aero and mechanical grip, but high enough that the chassis doesn’t 
make significant contact with the race track over the course of a lap. 
Raising and lowering the front ride height will affect aerodynamic 
balance, overall downforce levels, and drag, so consult the Aero 
Calculator to see how a ride height change will influence handling 
when changing this value
SPRING DEFL
Spring Deflection is how much the primary ride spring has 
compressed from its fully extended length while under static 
conditions in the garage. Useful for determining how much preload a 
spring is under.
SHOCK DEFL
Shock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from 
its fully extended length while under static conditions in the 
garage. This is useful for determining how much shock travel is 
available before the shock springs and packers are engaged on 
the shock body.
TORSION BAR PRELOAD
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this 
setting applies a preload to the torsion bar under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the torsion bar, adding 
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
TORSION BAR OUTER DIAMETER
The Torsion Bar Outer Diameter changes the size, and thus the 
stiffness, of the front suspension torsion bars, which are used 
as spring elements. Springs are used to keep the chassis from 
contacting the track under the loads seen on track and to manage 
the chassis’ aerodynamic attitude, but their stiffness also has a 
major influence on the car’s handling characteristics. On the front 
end, stiffer springs (larger Outer Diameter) can keep the front wing 
from moving too much under increasing aerodynamic loads but 
will decrease mechanical grip and can cause understeer in slower 
corners. Softer springs will result in more front end movement, which 
can hurt aero, but will increase mechanical grip in the front axle and 
reduce understeer (or cause oversteer, in extreme cases). Larger 
diameters will be stiffer, smaller diameters will be softer.
COMPRESSION DAMPING
Compression Damping affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer. Lower values will slow weight transfer to a tire, 
reducing understeer when applied to the front shocks.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REBOUND DAMPING
Rebound Damping controls the stiffness of the shock while 
extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as a 
result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When 
tuning for handling, higher front low-speed rebound can increase 
on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce splitter lift) while 
lower values will maintain front end grip longer, helping to reduce 
understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound 
can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of 
the track surface instead of staying in contact.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, viewed from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
Corner Weight represents the weight on each wheel when sitting 
in the garage. This can be used to visualize the weight distribution 
under static conditions and help with identifying changes to weight 
distribution through the setup process.
SPRING DEFL
Spring Deflection is how much the primary ride spring has 
compressed from its fully extended length while under static 
conditions in the garage. Useful for determining how much preload 
a spring is under
SHOCK DEFL
Shock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from its 
fully extended length while under static conditions in the garage. 
This is useful for determining how much shock travel is available 
before the shock springs and packers are engaged on the 
shock body.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this setting 
applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. Decreasing 
the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its 
corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing the 
value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, for example) 
or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to prevent 
crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs will maintain the car’s aero platform better while sacrificing 
mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps better and 
increase mechanical grip, but will cause the car’s aerodynamic 
platform to suffer. Due to homologation rules, rear spring rates must 
be symmetrical across the rear axle and can only be changed in 
pairs.
COMPRESSION DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer on throttle application.
REBOUND DAMPING
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer on throttle application.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive camber values 
can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly 
reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance between life and 
performance. Higher rear camber values can increase cornering 
stability but reduce stability under braking.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the rear end, adding toe-in will increase straight-
line stability but may hurt how well the car changes direction.
RIDE HEIGHT
Rear Ride Height is a measurement from the ground to a reference 
point on the chassis along the centerline of the car. Since this 
value doesn’t necessarily represent the lowest point on the chassis 
it does not specifically represent the chassis’ ground clearance, 
but is instead a reference for setup and aero work. Raising and 
lowering the rear ride height will affect aerodynamic balance, overall 
downforce levels, and drag, so consult the Aero Calculator to see 
how a ride height change will influence handling when changing this 
value.
THIRD SPRING
The Third Spring is a spring element configured to provide resistance 
only in vertical suspension movement without affecting roll 
stiffness. This spring element is helpful with controlling increasing 
aerodynamic loads and maintaining the proper aerodynamic attitude 
around a circuit. The rear end’s third spring is crucial in maintaining 
and controlling the rear ride height around a circuit to maximize the 
downforce produced by the rear bodywork.
THIRD PERCH OFFSET
Changes the static load of the third spring via an adjustable spring 
perch. This is used to alter the overall front end ride height.
THIRD SPRING DEFL
The Third Spring Deflection is how much the rear Third Spring has 
compressed from its free (unloaded) length. This is not directly 
adjustable, but is altered as a result of other rear suspension 
adjustments, especially the Third Perch Offset setting but can be 
altered by the corner spring settings as well. Higher deflection 
indicates the spring is under higher pre-load, lower deflection 
indicates a more relaxed spring.
THIRD DAMPER DEFL
The Third Damper Deflection is an indicator of how much travel is 
available in the rear Third Spring element before bottoming out. This 
value doesn’t represent any loading in the suspension, only the Third 
Damper’s position.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
PUSHROD LENGTH OFFSET
The rear Pushrods can be lengthened or shortened to change ride 
height without affecting the preload on the front spring components. 
Before using this adjustment, ensure both corner springs and the 
rear Third spring are set to the desired value, then adjust the rear 
ride height with the pushrod length. Longer pushrods will raise the 
rear ride height, shorter pushrods will reduce rear ride height.
ARB SIZE
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size influences the stiffness of the front 
suspension in roll, such as when navigating a corner. Increasing 
the ARB size will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, 
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical understeer. This 
can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel 
from the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB size will soften the 
suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical 
understeer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from the 
steering, but grip across the rear axle will increase.
ARB ARM LENGTH
The ARB Arm Length option changes how long the ARB assembly 
arms are. Longer arms result in a softer ARB assembly and less 
stiffness in roll, inducing understeer. Shorter arms stiffen the front 
suspension in roll, inducing oversteer.
DIFFERENTIAL
RAMP ANGLES
The Ramp Angles are a way to tune the differential locking on 
deceleration and acceleration with various configurations. The 
Ramp Angle values are split between “coast”, or deceleration, and 
“power”, or acceleration. Lower angle values will have more locking 
force for the situation that it is associated with, while higher angle 
values will have less locking force. For the “coast” adjustment, more 
locking force (lower ramp angles) will increase understeer while 
less locking force (higher angles) will increase oversteer. On the 
“power” side, more locking force will add oversteer on throttle and 
less locking force will increase understeer. Since these adjustments 
are somewhat independent of one another and can be chosen 
independently, this is a great way to fine-tune corner entry and exit 
once the whole corner has been tuned with the Preload and Friction 
Faces number.
CLUTCH FRICTION FACES
The differential Clutch Friction Faces are a way to greatly increase 
the forces from the differential that attempt to keep the two rear 
axles locked in sync. The number of clutch faces used will multiply 
the locking force by the number of faces in use when compared to 
a single set of friction faces. For example, 4 friction faces will have 
4 times the locking force of one face, 12 will have 12 times the force 
of one face, etc. Higher locking forces (more friction faces) will 
increase the amount of understeer seen when off the throttle under 
deceleration for corner entry, but will increase oversteer on exit 
when applying the throttle. Fewer faces will increase oversteer on 
corner entry while decelerating but add understeer when applying 
the throttle.
PRELOAD
Differential Preload is a static amount of locking force that is always 
present in the differential regardless of acceleration or deceleration. 
Increasing the preload will add understeer under braking but 
oversteer on throttle application, while decreasing preload will add 
oversteer under braking but understeer on throttle application.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely either the ride heights 
that will require adjustment. This is performed by using the P-rod 
Length Offset at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will 
increase the ride height while left clicks (negative) will reduce the 
ride height. In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of 
setups:
Baseline is a 50% fuel load setup in maximum downforce 
configuration intended to be safe and versatile for newcomers to the 
car. This setup will pass tech inspection at all possible fuel loads but 
does not offer maximum performance.
Low, Medium and High Downforce setups are 50% fuel load setups 
intended for use when no track specific setup exists.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Track specific setups are intended for use in the weekly Super 
Formula Lights series. They are fueled to safely make the finish in 
both the fixed and open series.
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended to 
start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating the 
other downforce level options.
This car has third and heave springs, which allow you to adjust 
pitch motion (and dynamic ride heights) without affecting roll 
stiffness. These will have a major effect on pitch motion. Use these 
in conjunction with the front torsion bars and rear springs to set the 
dynamic ride heights of the car.
In this car, it’s generally best to run the front of the car as low as 
possible to generate more downforce.
AERODYNAMIC BALANCE
There are two parts to setting the correct aerodynamic balance for 
your car: the options that affect aerodynamic balance directly in 
the garage (wing angles and garage ride heights) as well as options 
that affect the car’s dynamic ride heights at speed (springs, torsion 
bars) and transient motions (dampers). These settings all interact to 
determine what overall aero balance the car has through different 
types of corners.
Keep in mind that aero balance is still in effect in low-speed corners 
- although its effect is lessened, it will have an impact on what 
you feel.
Also, consider that some options that affect aero balance, 
particularly those that affect the car’s dynamic ride heights, will also 
have an effect on roll behavior and therefore mechanical balance. 
For example, softening the front torsion bars will allow the front to 
sink lower at speed. This increases the difference between front and 
rear ride heights which pushes aero balance further forward (more 
oversteer) while also lowering the total roll resistance of the front as 
if you had softened the anti-roll bar.
On the other hand, third and heave springs (and their corresponding 
dampers) only affect pitch motion of the car. These are used to 
tweak dynamic ride heights without affecting roll behavior or general 
mechanical balance.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | USER MANUAL
MECHANICAL BALANCE
Options that affect the chassis roll stiffness (anti-roll bars, springs, 
and dampers in transient motions) and differential settings play into 
what is felt as mechanical balance. 
As you are adjusting roll stiffness, be aware of the total roll stiffness 
as well as the balance between front and rear roll stiffness. The 
balance between front and rear stiffness can be felt as balance 
shifts between turn-in and on-throttle behavior, while total roll 
stiffness affects the car’s overall responsiveness and pliableness 
while turning.
GEAR STACK
You should endeavor to use the shortest gear stack that you can 
without resulting in over revving the engine in 6th gear on the 
longest straight. There is a top speed calculated for each gear 
stack to assist you with this selection. Shorter gears will produce 
significantly better acceleration but have a lower ultimate top speed.
SUPER FORMULA LIGHTS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | SETUP TIPS
TIRE CONTACT PATCH
The last main piece of the puzzle is the tire contact patch. Settings 
that affect the tire contact patch (camber and toe) behave mostly 
independently of other settings, which makes them easy to tweak 
at any point along the setup process. However, they can be 
difficult to optimize if other parts of the car’s balance are inducing 
undesirable behaviors. 
FINAL NOTE
As you make changes to each setup option, it is likely that you will 
reach a point where you are unsure if a change is helping the car’s 
balance or not. That often happens when another option is inducing 
an undesirable behavior and covering up details of the option you 
are currently adjusting. When this happens, try experimenting with 
another setting and see if it is more effective in optimizing the car’s 
balance.