--- PAGE 1 ---

TOYOTA GR86
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Config » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Settings » 10
 Front » 11
Chassis » 11
Tires » 10 
 Front Corners » 13 
 In-Car Dials » 12 
 Rear Corners » 14
 Rear » 15
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
The official car of the all-new Toyota GR Cup, Toyota’s all-new single-make road racing series, the Toyota 
GR86 serves as an approachable, sporty vehicle for drivers to hone their craft. Announced in 2022, each 
Toyota GT86 starts as a fully production vehicle before heading to North Carolina, where Toyota Gazoo 
Racing North America engineers transform it into racing machines capable of taking on some of America’s 
premier road courses.
The Toyota GR Cup is designed as an amateur racing series that can welcome up-and-comers, casual 
drivers, and retired legends alike, and the GR86 is up to the task. Custom modifications like a six-speed 
sequential transmission and aggressive new bodywork elevate the profile of the road-going car for the 
needs of the track, without becoming too much to handle too quickly. Get behind the wheel of the GR86 
and experience one of racing’s most exciting new spec classes before it makes its real-world debut!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
TOYOTA GR86 | TECH SPECS
MCPHERSON STRUT FRONT SUSPENSION, 
DOUBLE WISHBONE REAR SUSPENSION
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 2.4 LITER 
4-CYLINDER BOXER
LENGTH
4264 mm
167.9 in
WIDTH
1775 mm
69.9 in
WHEELBASE
2575 mm
106.7 in
DRY WEIGHT
1297 kg
2860 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1358 kg
2996 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
2.4 Liters
146.5 cid
TORQUE
188 lb-ft
255 Nm
POWER
220 bhp
164 kW
RPM LIMIT
7500
 

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for 
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
TOYOTA GR86 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to
become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have 
provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced by
these cars. To access the baseline setups, simply open the
Garage, click iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup
for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which a 
dedicated baseline setup is not included, you may select a setup
for a similar track to use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the
proper racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends 
over a number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling too 
fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that is the 
case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Upshifting is recommended when the final shift light on the dashboard 
is illuminated in red. This is at 7100 rpm. Note; all shift lights will flash 
red at 7200 rpm as an additional warning however, this is beyond the 
optimal shift point.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be 
automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of the 
other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage 
> iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that fits your 
needs. If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the 
changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
TOYOTA GR86 | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver
or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side
of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage 
as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
UPPER GROUP
Best The current session’s fastest lap time
Current Lap Delta
The current lap’s difference in time relative to the session best lap time is shown at the top of the screen in 
the center. Shown as a live delta to the session best lap, this value will be green if the current lap is faster and 
red if the current lap is slower.
Current A live display of the time elapsed on the current lap is shown in the upper right of the display.
Fuel Used The amount of fuel that has been used since leaving the pits (or start of the race).
Predicted
Based on the current lap delta and prior lap times, the display will show a lap time prediction under the 
Current lap time display. 
CENTER GAUGES
Oil Temperature
The engine oil temperature is shown on the left of the display. The temperature is shown in both a gauge and 
numerical format, with the gauge changing colors for dangerous operating temperatures.
Tachometer
The engine RPM is shown in the center of the display on a white digital tachometer. This display will change 
from white to red when the RPM is nearing the optimum shift point and rev limiter. 
Gear Indicator The currently selected gear is shown within the tachometer display. 
Water Temperature
The engine’s cooling water temperature is shown on the right side of the display. The temperature is shown in 
both a gauge and numerical format, with the gauge changing colors for dangerous operating temperatures.
The Toyota GR86 uses a single-page, dash mounted display to show all engine data and race information to the driver in a clear 
and easy-to-read format.
LOWER GROUP
Speedometer
The car’s current speed is shown on the bottom of the display in the center in Miles- or Kilometers-per-hour 
depending on the units selected in the Garage.
AC Mode Inoperable, will display “0”
TC Mode
Currently selected Traction Control System setting. This value reflects what is selected in the garage and the 
F8 black box.
ABS Mode
Currently selected Anti-Lock Braking System setting. This value reflects what is selected in the garage and 
the F8 black box.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | DASH PAGES
WARNING BANNER
If a major issue is present the dash will display a warning banner across the top and illuminate one LED on either side of the display. 
This banner will display information such as low fuel pressure, low oil pressure, or high oil or water temperatures.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of 
the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental 
fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES 
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, 
but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will require higher 
pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance 
from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track 
characteristics for optimum performance.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold and 
Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should 
build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling 
balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be 
adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature.
TIRES 
TIRE SETTINGS
LAST TEMPERATURES OMI
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are 
useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the 
Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel 
alignment while on track. These values are measured in three zones 
across the tread of the tire.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB SIZE
The Front ARB Size will alter the front suspension roll stiffness. 
Three options are available, two size options and an option to 
disconnect the bar entirely. The Stiff option will result in a higher 
roll stiffness and induce understeer while cornering, while the 
Soft option will reduce the roll stiffness and reduce understeer. 
Disconnecting the bar will greatly reduce roll stiffness, inducing 
oversteer while cornering, but can lead to instability due to excessive 
body roll when cornering.
ARB SETTING
The Front ARB setting can be set to one of three options to fine-tune 
the front suspension roll stiffness once a Front ARB size has been 
selected. For both the Stiff and Soft ARB Size options, lower ARB 
Setting values will stiffen the ARB assembly and induce understeer. 
Higher values will soften the ARB assembly and reduce understeer. 
If ARB Size is set to “Disconnected”, this adjustment does not 
influence handling characteristics.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the front wheels, when viewed from above, 
relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive values for this 
setting are Toe-In, negative values are Toe-out. Toe-in is when the 
front of the wheels are closer to the centerline than the rear of the 
wheels, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-
out will decrease straight-line stability by increasing the slip angle 
on the inside tire when turning. This can aid in turn-in response but 
can make it easier to over-slip the tire and lose grip with too much 
steering angle. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in responsiveness 
but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
BUMP RUBBER LENGTH
Bump rubbers are an option that may be fitted to the front 
suspension for additional ride height control and increased effective 
front suspension stiffness. These act as a non-linear rate springs 
(increasing with compression) which will produce better ride height 
control on smooth tracks. However, fitting them will result in a 
reduction in mechanical grip at this axle and poorer absorption 
of large impacts such as kerb strikes.
The Bump Rubber Length option will alter how tall the front 
suspension’s bump rubbers are and thus change when they will 
engage and begin increasing the front suspension rate. This 
will result in a much stiffer suspension and will provide better 
aerodynamic platform control and better stability in high-speed 
corners but it will reduce grip in low-speed corners and over rough 
surfaces. Lower values will engage the bump rubber later and higher 
values will engage sooner in compression.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross Weight is the percentage of the car’s total weight situated on 
the Right-Front and Left-Rear tires. This can be altered with the 
Spring Perch Offset settings and influences the asymmetric handling 
behavior of the chassis. Values above 50% will induce understeer in 
left-hand corners and oversteer in right-hand corners, while values 
below 50% will induce oversteer in left-hand corners and understeer 
in right-hand corners. For Road Course and Street Circuits, it is best 
to keep this value as close to 50% as possible.
NOSE WEIGHT
Nose Weight is the percentage of the car’s total weight situated 
above the front axle. Higher nose weight values (more weight on the 
front end) will induce understeer while cornering while lower nose 
weight values will induce oversteer while cornering. This value is 
non-adjustable, but changes with varying fuel levels.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
The Brake Pressure Bias represents the percentage of the total 
braking force that is sent to the front braking system. On the Toyota 
GR86 this is non-adjustable and is locked at 50%.
BRAKE PADS
Three different brake pad options are available to alter the amount of 
deceleration force exerted by the brake system. High Friction pads 
will provide the most braking force but are difficult for the driver to 
modulate to avoid lockups, while Low Friction pads produce the least 
braking force with the easiest level of pedal modulation. Medium 
Friction is a compromise between High and Low Friction pads.
ABS SETTING
The Anti-Lock Brake setting controls how much the ABS system will 
attempt to intervene and prevent brake lockups. Settings 1-3 control 
the amount of intervention, with “3” providing the most assistance 
and “1” providing the least. Setting “0” will disable the ABS system 
entirely. 
TC SETTING
The Traction Control system can be fine-tuned to both track 
conditions and driver preferences with the TC Setting option. 
Just like the ABS Setting, values 1-3 will alter how much the Traction 
Control system tries to intervene and prevent wheelspin on throttle, 
with “3” providing the most assistance and “1” providing the least 
amount of assistance. Setting “0” will disable the TC system.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
This displays the weight on each wheel while sitting in the garage 
under static conditions. Useful for determining weight distribution 
during chassis adjustments.
RIDE HEIGHT
Chassis Ride Height is the distance from the ground to a reference 
point on the bottom of the chassis just behind the front tires. Since 
this value is to a reference point, and not necessarily the lowest 
point on the car, this may not be representative of the vehicle’s 
ground clearance.
SPRING PERCH
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight 
by changing the preload on the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight 
to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing 
the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right together, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car 
to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump Stiffness is how stiff the shocks are under compression, or 
“bump”, such as what the front shocks experience under braking. 
Higher Bump settings on the front shocks produce a stiffer shock 
in compression, which can induce understeer under braking and 
turn-in. Lower Bump settings will soften the shock and reduce 
understeer in the braking and turn-in phase.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound Stiffness controls how resistant the shock is to 
expansion, or “rebound”, such as what the front shocks experience 
under acceleration. Lower values will make the front shocks more 
resistant to expanding, which can induce understeer on acceleration. 
Higher values will make the shock less resistant to expansion, which 
can increase front end mechanical grip and reduce understeer 
when accelerating.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive 
camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will 
also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a 
balance between life and performance.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
This displays the weight on each wheel while sitting in the garage 
under static conditions. Useful for determining weight distribution 
during chassis adjustments.
RIDE HEIGHT
Chassis Ride Height is the distance from the ground to a reference 
point on the bottom of the chassis just ahead of the rear tires. Since 
this value is to a reference point, and not necessarily the lowest 
point on the car, this may not be representative of the vehicle’s 
ground clearance.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate is the stiffness value of the suspension’s spring 
components. Higher values represent stiffer springs and lower 
values represent softer springs. At the rear end, stiffer spring 
values can reduce the car’s aerodynamic pitch sensitivity (less 
likely to change aerodynamic balance under acceleration), but will 
reduce mechanical grip at the rear and can induce oversteer while 
cornering. Softer springs will increase mechanical grip and can shift 
mechanical balance to understeer, but aerodynamic stability can 
suffer under heavy acceleration.
SPRING PERCH
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight 
by changing the preload on the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight 
to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing 
the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right together, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump Stiffness is how stiff the shocks are under compression, or 
“bump”, such as what the rear shocks experience under throttle. 
Higher Bump settings on the rear shocks produce a stiffer shock 
in compression, which can increase traction on throttle. Lower 
Bump settings will soften the shock and reduce understeer in the 
acceleration phase.
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound Stiffness controls how resistant the shock is to expansion, 
or “rebound”, such as what the rear shocks experience under 
braking. Lower values will make the rear shocks more resistant to 
expanding, which can induce understeer when braking and turning 
into a corner. Higher values will make the shock less resistant to 
expansion, which can decrease rear end mechanical grip and induce 
some oversteer while braking.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the 
chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer to 
the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber 
is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. Due to 
suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired 
on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will increase the 
cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount 
of longitudinal grip the tire will have under acceleration. Excessive 
camber values can reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance 
between life and performance.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative 
to the centerline of the chassis. Positive values for this setting are 
Toe-In, negative values are Toe-out. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-
out is the opposite. On the rear end, adding toe-out will decrease 
straight-line stability. This can aid in turn-in response but can make 
the car easier to spin in the middle of a corner. Toe-in at the rear will 
increase straight-line stability and reduce turn-in responsiveness.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
TOYOTA GR86 | USER MANUAL
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car leaves 
the garage. Changing fuel levels will alter the Nose Weight value and 
alter handling balance, it is important to be aware of weight changes 
with varying fuel levels.
ARB SIZE
The Rear ARB Size will alter the rear suspension roll stiffness and 
can either be connected (“Soft” setting) or disconnected. The Soft 
option will connect the rear ARB, increasing rear roll stiffness and 
inducing oversteer while cornering. Disconnecting the rear ARB will 
greatly decrease rear roll stiffness and induce understeer.
ARB SETTING
If the Rear ARB is used (“Soft” setting ONLY), it can be fine tuned 
with two options on the ARB Setting. Setting 1 is softer and will 
produce a lower rear roll stiffness, inducing understeer when 
compared to Setting 2, which will stiffen the rear suspension and 
result in more oversteer when cornering.
WING SETTING
The Wing Setting changes the rear wing’s angle of attack. This can 
be set to 5, 10, or 15 degrees, with higher values producing more 
downforce and more drag at the wing. These higher values will also 
shift aero balance rearward, inducing understeer in mid- to high-
speed corners, while lower values will reduce drag and downforce 
and shift aero forward.
TOYOTA GR86 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS