--- PAGE 1 ---

1
DALLARA P217 LMP2
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
 Tire Data » 12
 Aero Spec » 13
Tires & Aero » 12
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
 Aero Calculator » 14
Chassis » 15
 Front » 15
 Front Corners » 16
 Rear Corners » 17
 Rear » 18
Dampers » 19
In-Car / Systems » 20
 In-Car Dials » 20
 Brakes, Fuel, & Gear Ratios » 21
 Differential & Lighting » 22
Setup Tips » 23
SETUP TIPS
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dashboard » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 GENERAL INFORMATION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Dallara P217 LMP2! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and 
we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Dallara’s return to prototype racing for the first time since the original Audi R18 TDI, the P217 made its 
debut in 2017. The car competes in the LMP2 class in both the FIA World Endurance Championship 
and European Le Mans Series, while a Daytona Prototype International-spec version of the car races 
at the top level of the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship with Cadillac branding as part of a 
relationship with General Motors.
The LMP2 P217 is powered by a 4.2-liter Gibson V8, and features a six-speed sequential paddle shift 
transmission by Xtrac. Drivers who raced in the car in its 24 Hours of Le Mans debut included Formula 
1 legend Rubens Barrichello, former Le Mans winner Jan Lammers, and IndyCar veteran Mikhail Aleshin. 
Other Formula 1 veterans who have driven the car at Le Mans include Felipe Nasr, Sergey Sirotkin, and 
Giedo van der Garde.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT 
PUSHROD SUSPENSION
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
GIBSON GK-428 V8
LENGTH
4745 mm
186.8 in
WIDTH
1900 mm
74.8 in
DISPLACEMENT
4.2 Liters
256 CID
TORQUE
355 lb-ft
482 Nm
POWER
540 bhp
403 kW
WHEELBASE
3010 mm
118.5 in
DRY WEIGHT
950 kg
2094 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1081 kg
2384 lbs
RPM LIMIT
8500
8000 in 1st-5th

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. If that 
is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to
become familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have 
provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these 
cars. 
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of 
choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and
focus on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper 
racing line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a 
number of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load 
it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the setup 
to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in 
the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | INTRODUCTION
 
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in 
a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to 
do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
Left Cluster
Speed Vehicle speed in kph or mph
Live Fuel Fuel level in the tank in liters or gallons
Brake Balance % Front Brake Bias
Oil T Engine Oil Temperature in °C or °F
Water T Engine Water Temperature in °C or °F
Center
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear, shown in the center of the display
RPM located at the top of the display above the gear indicator
Bottom
Slip TC Slip Setting
EPS Power Steering Setting (pit change only)
TPS Throttle Shape setting
ENG Engine Mode Number. This value is not changeable
Gain TC Slip setting
Right Cluster
Lap Fuel Laps remaining at current fuel level
Delta Time difference to session best lap time
Lap Time Current lap time
Last Previously completed lap time
DASH PAGE 1

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | DASH PAGES
Left Cluster
Press (psi) Brake (Line) Pressure
Balance % Front Brake Bias
°F Brake Rotor Surface Temperature (°F)
Center
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear, shown in the center of the display
RPM located at the top of the display above the gear indicator
Bottom
Slip TC Slip Setting
EPS Power Steering Setting (pit change only)
TPS Throttle Shape setting
ENG Engine Mode Number. This value is not changeable
Gain TC Slip setting
Right Cluster
Tires Tire Pressure (psi)
°F Tire Surface Temperature (°F)
DASH PAGE 2

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | DASH PAGES
Left Cluster
Battery Voltage (V) Battery Voltage output in Volts
Oil Press Engine Oil Pressure in bar or psi
Oil Temp Engine Oil Temperature in °C or °F
Center
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear, shown in the center of the display
RPM located at the top of the display above the gear indicator
Bottom
Slip TC Slip Setting
EPS Power Steering Setting (pit change only)
TPS Throttle Shape setting
ENG Engine Mode Number. This value is not changeable
Gain TC Slip setting
Right Cluster
Lap Time Current Lap Time
Water Press Engine Water Pressure in bar or psi
Water Temp Engine Water Temperature in °C or °F
DASH PAGE 3

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | DASH PAGES
Left Cluster
Pit Lane Vehicle speed in kph or mph
Clutch P Clutch pedal travel percent
Balance % Front Brake Bias
Center
Gear Indicator Currently selected gear, shown in the center of the display
RPM located at the top of the display above the gear indicator
Right Cluster
Throttle Throttle travel percent
Tires P Tire pressure in bar or psi
ECT Engine Water Temperature in °C or °F
PIT LIMITER
WHEEL LOCKUP WARNING LIGHTS
TRACTION CONTROL ACTIVATION LIGHTS
Two clusters of three status lights are placed in the upper corners of the display areas, with the inner two lights each representing
the status of a wheel on that side of the vehicle. Whenever a wheel is locked under heavy braking, its corresponding status light
will illuminate red, with the left-front wheel shown by the upper-left light, the right-front wheel shown by the upper-right light,
and so forth.
The outermost status lights at the top of the dash display area show when the Traction Control system is active and attempting to control 
wheel spin. Whenever the system is activated, these lights will both illuminate in red.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
COLD PRESSURE / STARTING PRESSURE
The air pressure in the tires when the car is loaded into the world. 
Lower pressures will provide more grip but will produce more rolling 
drag and build temperature faster. Higher pressures will feel slightly 
more responsive and produce less rolling drag, but will result in 
less grip. Generally, higher pressures are preferred at tracks where 
speeds are higher while lower pressures work better at slower tracks 
where mechanical grip is important. 
LAST HOT PRESSURE
When the car returns to the garage after an on-track stint, the tire 
pressure will be displayed as Hot Pressure. The difference between 
cold and hot pressure is a good way to see how tires are being 
loaded and worked while on track. Tires seeing more work will build 
more pressure, and paying attention to which tires are building more 
pressure and adjusting cold pressure to compensate can be crucial 
for optimizing tire performance.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
The tire carcass temperatures (measured within the tread) are 
displayed after the car returns from the track. These temperatures 
are an effective way to determine how much work or load a given
tire is experiencing while on track. Differences between the inner 
and outer temperatures can be used to tune individual wheel 
alignment and the center temperatures can be compared to the 
outer temperatures to help tune tire pressure.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread on the tire, displayed as a percentage of a new 
tire, is shown below the tire temperatures. These values are good 
for determining how far a set of tires can go before needing to be 
replaced, but don’t necessarily indicate an under- or over-worked 
tire in the same way temperatures will.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
AERO PACKAGE
The Dallara P217 will run in one of two aerodynamic configurations 
based on the track. At all tracks excluding Le Mans, the car will 
default to the standard FiA specification. At the Circuit de La Sarthe, 
the car will default to a special low-downforce configuration titled 
“Le Mans”. This setting cannot be changed.
REAR WING ANGLE
The Rear Wing Angle setting changes the angle of attack of the
rear wing. Increasing the angle will increase the amount of 
downforce produced and move the aero balance rearward but 
will increase the amount of drag the wing produces. Reducing the 
angle will reduce overall downforce and shift aero balance forward, 
but will reduce drag and allow for a higher top speed. This angle 
is expressed as a reference measurement, not an absolute angle 
relative to the ground.
FRONT DIVE PLANES
The Front Dive Planes are aerodynamic surfaces attached to the 
front fenders beneath the headlights. These can dramatically 
increase the downforce produced at the front of the car while 
shifting the aero balance forward but will increase drag slightly. 
Increasing the number of dive planes will increase overall downforce 
and shift aero balance forward (more oversteer in high-speed 
corners) but will increase drag significantly.
When the Le Mans Aero Package is in use, the dive planes will be 
reduced and locked to zero.
AERO SPEC
WING GURNEY
The rear wing Gurney Flap is a small, vertical tab attached to the 
rear of the wing oriented perpendicular to the wing. Adding a gurney 
flap will increase the downforce generated by the wing along with an 
increase in drag.
DECK GURNEY
Similar to the rear wing Gurney Flap, the Deck Gurney is a small tab 
attached to the rear of the main bodywork, between the rear wheels. 
Adding a Gurney to the deck will increase rear downforce but will 
increase drag.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via 
telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the
“Front RH at Speed” setting.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero
Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations.
When using the aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride
height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value
into the “Front RH at Speed” setting.
DOWNFORCE TRIM
The Downforce Trim is a numerical representation of how much 
the baseline aero map has been altered with the car’s current 
configuration. Higher values indicate higher amounts of downforce 
while lower values indicate an decrease in downforce.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
DRAG TRIM
Similar to the Downforce Trim, the Drag Trim is a representation
of how much drag is being generated by the vehicle. Higher values 
indicate a higher amount of drag on the car, lower values indicate 
less drag.
BALANCE TRIM
The Balance Trim value indicates how much the aerodynamic 
balance has shifted from the base aero map based on the car’s 
current configuration and the At Speed RH settings. Higher values 
indicate a more forward aero balance (oversteer), lower values 
indicate a rearward shift towards more understeer.
EFFICIENCY (L/D)
The Efficiency value is the ratio of Lift (downforce) to Drag.
This quantifies how efficiently the car’s bodywork is producing 
downforce in terms of how much drag is being produced as a result. 
A higher L/D value means more downforce is being produced for 
each unit of drag, meaning the bodywork is working more efficiently. 
Having a higher L/D value without sacrificing overall downforce will 
result in a faster, more efficient car. Optimum values for L/D can vary 
based on the aerodynamic configuration and track type.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
HEAVE SPRING RATE
The Heave Spring is a suspension element configured to
provide resistance only in vertical suspension movement
without affecting roll stiffness, used to control increasing 
aerodynamic loads and maintain the proper aerodynamic
attitude around a circuit without sacrificing the grip caused
by stiffer corner springs. The front end’s heave spring is crucial 
in maintaining and controlling splitter height around a circuit to 
maximize the downforce produced by the front bodywork.
The Heave Spring can be set to either a progressive or linear
setting. The Soft, Medium, and Hard settings are all non-linear
bump rubbers, becoming stiffer in rate as they compress.
Linear springs are represented by a rate value. Stiffer Heave 
Spring rates will control the chassis attitude better and increase 
aerodynamic stability and performance, but can hurt mechanical
grip over bumpy surfaces.
HEAVE SPRING GAP
The Heave Spring Gap displays how much the Heave element
must compress before the spring is engaged. Having a positive
gap will allow the suspension to travel more before engaging 
the spring, useful to help the car drop quickly under building 
aerodynamic loads. Lower values will control the aerodynamic 
attitude better, but can hurt mechanical grip if the spring is
engaged too early. Preloading the Heave Spring
(negative value) is not allowed.
ARB STIFFNESS
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) stiffness influences the behavior of the front 
suspension in roll, such as when navigating a corner. Increasing the 
ARB stiffness will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, 
resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical understeer.
This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel 
for the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB stiffness will soften the 
suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical 
understeer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from the 
steering, but grip across the front axle will increase.
ARB BLADE POSITION
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly.
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the
ARB itself, increasing roll stiffness in the front suspension and
producing the same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing 
the ARB Stiffness. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness 
of the front suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing 
the ARB stiffness. These blade adjustments can be thought of as 
fine-tuning adjustments between ARB stiffness settings.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, looking from vertical, relative to the 
chassis centerline. Toe-in is when the front of the wheels are closer 
to the centerline while Toe-out is when the front of the wheels are 
farther from the centerline than the rear of the tires. On the front 
end, Toe will alter how quickly the tires respond to steering inputs 
and influence how stable the car is in a straight line. Toe-out settings 
(negative garage value) will increase turn-in response and make 
the car less stable in a straight line, while Toe-in (positive garage 
value) will increase straight-line stability while making initial steering 
response more sluggish.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Torsion Bar Turns setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom of the front skid blocks 
projected outward to the edges of the reference surface.
Since these values are measured to a specific reference point on
the car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well
as increase overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle.
TORSION BAR TURNS
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this 
setting applies a preload to the torsion bar under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the torsion bar, adding 
weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to 
prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
TORSION BAR SIZE
Similar to an Anti-Roll Bar in how force is transferred to the 
suspension, a torsion bar is a spring that exerts resistive forces
via applied torque generated through suspension travel.
However, these torsion bars are fixed to the chassis at one end,
and thus resist movement only on one wheel in the same way a
coil spring resists movement and load changes. Increasing the 
torsion bar’s diameter gives a higher spring rate, and reducing the 
diameter gives a lower spring rate. Stiffer springs are very helpful
for smooth tracks and applications where a high level of 
aerodynamic attitude control is required, however stiff springs 
reduce mechanical grip significantly, especially over bumps.
On low-grip and/or bumpy tracks, as well as lower speed tracks 
where aerodynamics may not be as effective, softer springs will 
increase mechanical grip while sacrificing aerodynamic control. 
Torsion Bar Diameter adjustments should be made in conjunction 
with ride height adjustments to prevent unwanted grounding of the 
chassis while on track.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a 
balance between life and performance.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to the bottom of the rear skid blocks projected 
outward to the edges of the reference surface. Since these values 
are measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but 
instead provide a reliable value for the height of the car off of 
the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing 
rear ride height will increase front downforce as well as slightly 
decreasing overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering resulting in an increase in rear 
mechanical grip. Conversely, reducing ride height will reduce front 
and overall downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the 
rear axle, resulting in a decrease in mechanical grip.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this
setting applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding
weight to the corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight 
on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, 
for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car
to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in a force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining
ride height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads,
stiffer springs will maintain the car’s aero platform better while 
sacrificing mechanical grip. Softer springs will deal with bumps 
better and increase mechanical grip, but will cause the car’s 
aerodynamic platform to suffer. Due to homologation rules,
rear spring rates must be symmetrical across the rear axle and
can only be changed in pairs.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center
of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, 
positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than
the bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads,
negative camber is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative 
camber values will increase the cornering force generated by
the tire, but will reduce the amount of grip the tire will have
under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high 
cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is 
important to find a balance between life and performance.
Higher rear camber values can increase cornering stability but 
reduce stability under braking.
TOE-IN
Camber Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from
above, relative to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when
the front of the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear
of the wheel, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the rear end,
adding toe-in will increase straight-line stability but may hurt
how well the car changes direction.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
THIRD SPRING RATE
The rear Third Spring is a suspension element configured to
provide resistance only in vertical suspension movement without 
affecting roll stiffness, used to control increasing aerodynamic
loads and maintain the proper aerodynamic attitude around a
circuit without sacrificing the grip caused by stiffer corner springs.
The rear end’s third spring is crucial in maintaining and controlling 
splitter height around a circuit to maximize the downforce produced 
by the front bodywork.
Like the front Heave Spring, the rear Third Spring can be set to 
either a progressive or linear setting. The Soft, Medium, and Hard 
settings are all non-linear bump rubbers, becoming stiffer in rate 
as they compress. Linear springs are represented by a rate value. 
Stiffer Third Spring rates will control the chassis attitude better 
and increase aerodynamic stability and performance, but can hurt 
mechanical grip over bumpy surfaces.
THIRD SPRING GAP
The Third Spring Gap displays how much the Third Spring element 
must compress before the spring is engaged. Having a positive
gap will allow the suspension to travel more before engaging 
the spring, useful to help the car drop quickly under building 
aerodynamic loads. Lower values will control the aerodynamic 
attitude better, but can hurt mechanical grip if the spring is engaged 
too early. Preloading the Third Spring (negative value) is not allowed.
ARB STIFFNESS
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) stiffness influences the behavior of
the rear suspension in roll, such as when navigating a corner.
Increasing the ARB stiffness will increase the roll stiffness of the 
rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical 
oversteer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive 
steering feel for the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB stiffness 
will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing 
mechanical oversteer. This can result in a less-responsive feel, but 
grip across the rear axle will increase.
ARB BLADE POSITION
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can
be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Higher values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB 
itself, increasing roll stiffness in the rear suspension and producing 
the same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the ARB 
stiffness. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness of the 
rear suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing the 
ARB stiffness. These blade adjustments can be thought of as
fine-tuning adjustments between ARB stiffness settings.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner spring preload adjustments 
(Front Torsion Bar Turns and Rear Spring Perch Offset). Typically this 
should be kept as close to 50% as possible to avoid asymmetrical 
handling issues.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
LOW SPEED COMPRESSION
Low Speed Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. 
Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer load 
onto a given tire under these low-speed conditions more quickly, 
inducing understeer on throttle application. 
For shocks on the front end, increasing Low-Speed Compression 
can induce understeer under braking and at turn-in, reducing it will 
reduce understeer. Increasing Low-Speed Compression on the rear 
of the car will increase traction on initial throttle application, while 
reducing it can reduce on-throttle understeer.
HIGH SPEED COMPRESSION DAMPING
High-Speed Compression affects the shock’s behavior in high-speed 
travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the track’s 
surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension 
to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the 
aerodynamic platform around the track. 
HS COMPRESSION SLOPE (BLOW OFF)
The High-Speed Compression Slope setting controls the
overall shape of the high-speed compression side of the shock. 
Lower slope values produce a flatter, more digressive curve while 
higher values result in a more linear and aggressive compression 
graph. The value of the slope setting is very important in controlling 
bump absorption at high shock velocities and controlling the 
aerodynamic platform. A lower slope will be helpful for rougher 
tracks in absorbing bumps and sharp impacts such as curbs, while 
a higher slope will keep the suspension more rigid, which can be 
helpful in resisting compression and raising the chassis above a 
bump in the track surface. It’s important to understand that these 
settings will affect the range the High-Speed Compression will
have, with higher slope values producing a higher overall force
for high-speed compression.
LS REBOUND
Low-speed Rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock 
while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion 
of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. 
Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but 
can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. 
On the front of the car, higher Low-Speed Rebound can induce 
understeer on throttle application while higher settings on the rear
of the car can induce understeer under braking.
HS REBOUND
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over
bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly
the shock will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to 
extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on 
handling in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce 
similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | IN-CAR / SYSTEMS
IN-CAR/SYSTEMS
IN-CAR DIALS
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering 
response is in the vehicle’s steering box. This ratio can be thought 
of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one degree 
of turn on the steering box output shaft. Two options are available: 
10.5 and 11.6. The 10.5 steering ratio will provide a faster steering 
response while the 11.6 will be slightly slower to respond. This is 
often a driver preference and has no real impact on chassis balance. 
POWER STEERING ASSIST
Changes the assist level of the power steering system.
Higher values will increase the assist and make the steering feel 
lighter, lower values will reduce assist and make the steering heavier.
TRACTION CONTROL GAIN
Gain is the amount of intervention the Traction Control will
exert when wheel spin is detected. Higher values result in a
more aggressive throttle cut to control wheelspin. This value
can be changed in the F8 black box while driving.
TRACTION CONTROL SLIP
Slip is how sensitive the Traction Control system will be to 
wheelspin. Higher values will activate the Traction Control
system with smaller amounts of wheelspin, while lower values
will allow slightly more wheelspin prior to activating the system.
This value can be changed in the F8 black box while driving.
THROTTLE SHAPE
The Throttle Shape setting will adjust how linear the torque delivery 
is based on the throttle pedal position. Setting “1” is purely linear, 
with a given percent of throttle delivering a similar percentage of 
max torque (25% throttle = 25% torque). As settings are increased 
the torque delivery becomes more non-linear, similar to a butterfly-
style throttle: less torque increase at very low and very high throttle 
percentage and more torque increase in the throttle’s mid-range. 
This will change the feel of the car when throttle is initially applied 
and is a good tool for drivers with various driving styles.
DISPLAY PAGE
Sets the default display page on the steering wheel display when
the car is loaded into the world.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | IN-CAR / SYSTEMS
BRAKES
FUEL & GEAR RATIOS
BRAKE PADS
Braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad Compound. 
The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing the 
effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup. 
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, which will shift 
the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake 
line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias forward and 
reducing required pedal effort to lock the front wheels.
FUEL LEVEL
Fuel level is the amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car
leaves the garage. 
GEAR STACK
Gear Stack changes the gear ratios in the transmission.
Standard is a shorter set of gears suited for most tracks,
while the Tall stack provides higher stop speeds at the
cost of acceleration, intended for use at Le Mans.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, which will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will increase brake line pressure to 
the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward and reducing required 
pedal effort to lock the rear wheels.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for
a given situation.
GEAR SPEEDS
Each of the transmission’s seven forward gears will show
the approximate ground speed at which the engine will reach
maximum RPM. These values will change based on which Gear
Stack is selected, but the true maximum speed may differ slightly 
due to on-track conditions.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | IN-CAR / SYSTEMS
DIFFERENTIAL & LIGHTING
DRIVE/COAST RAMPS
The Differential Ramp Angles affect the force exerted by the 
differential to keep both driven tires locked together under 
acceleration. Lower values produce more locking force, and
more locking force increases understeer during braking and 
acceleration phases. Higher values will produce less locking
force and induce oversteer in these situations.
FRICTION FACES
The number of clutch faces affect how much overall force is
applied to keep the differential locked. Treated as a multiplier,
adding more faces produces increasingly more locking force.
DIFF PRELOAD
The differential can be set with a static load applied. Higher values 
produce more locking force in the differential in all conditions, 
producing more understeer under acceleration and deceleration. 
This value will also affect mid-corner performance, with higher 
values not allowing the differential to unlock as much, increasing 
mid-corner understeer.
ROOF ID LIGHT COLOR
The color of a small light on the roof of the car can be changed 
to aid in identifying the vehicle, especially helpful in events where 
multiple cars are running the same livery.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
PROVIDED SETUPS
PROVIDED SETUPS
BASELINE
Baseline is a 100% fuel load setup which is intended solely
for loading the car. As such, this setup should always pass
tech inspection at every fuel load and track but will not provide 
ultimate performance.
WET
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
FIXED
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed
setup series and is similar to the high_downforce setup.
Similarly, setups suffixed with ‘_fixed’ are used when a track 
demands a non-standard configuration.
LEMANS
The setup titled ‘lemans’ is the setup used to suit the special 
aerodynamic requirements for Le Mans which forces the low 
downforce package to be fitted and both dive planes removed.
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require adjustment. This is performed by using the torsion bar turns at the
front of the car and the spring perch offset at the rear of the car. Left clicks (negative) will increase the ride height while right clicks
(positive) will reduce the ride height.
More rake (high rear ride heights compared to front ride heights) will move aero balance forward, inducing oversteer, and less rake will
shift the aero rearward and induce understeer.
You can affect the dynamic ride heights (without changing the roll stiffness) on track by adjusting the front heave spring and the
rear heave spring.
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.
Max Speed under 270 km/h (167 mph) - High Downforce
Max Speed 270 to 290 km/h - Medium Downforce
Max Speed over 290 km/h (180 mph) - Low to Minimum Downforce
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups:

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
The P217 is very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle.
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +17 deg
Dive Planes: 2
Wing Gurney: On
Deck Gurney:On
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 5.0 mm
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 50.0 mm
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation.
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
Rear Wing Angle: +12 degrees
Dive Planes: 0
Wing Gurney: Off
Deck Gurney: Off
Dynamic Front Ride Height: 5.00 mm
Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 5.00 mm
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance.
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance assuming a starting 
wing position of 15 degrees and 15.0 mm front, 25.0 mm rear ride 
heights:
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -3.0 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +3.5 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1
Front Ride Height: +2.0 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: -5.0 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag.
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance.
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed.
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed.

--- PAGE 26 ---

26
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | USER MANUAL
DALLARA P217 LMP2 | SETUP TIPS
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Three adjustment options are available for the differential.
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on throttle 
oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing.
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Differential ramp angles act similarly to friction faces but in finer 
increments and are adjusted as a set pair on this car, thus, some 
trade off in either coast or drive may be required.
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.
When changing springs in more than one increment, it may not be 
possible to rebalance with ARB’s alone.
Lower ramp angle -> More locking, similar effects to more friction 
faces.
Higher ramp angle -> Less locking, similar effects to less friction 
faces.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer.
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, less 
off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.
A SPECIAL NOTE ON HEAVE & THIRD SPRINGS
Non-linear options can provide better ride height control (less 
variation in min-max heights) over the expected speed range
but can be more difficult to work with.
Linear rates may be used in the same way as a conventional spring 
but may result in the chassis sitting higher than is optimal in the 
middle of the speed range.
A smaller heave/third spring gap loads the spring earlier and can be 
used to keep the chassis off the ground. This is particularly relevant 
for the front of the car where it is vital to run low for maximum 
performance but not so low that the floor is stalled.
By varying the ride heights in the garage through adjusting the 
torsion bar turns and spring perch offset, you may infer at the
on-track ride height at which the heave/third spring will be loaded.
It is not permitted to preload the front heave and rear third springs.