--- PAGE 1 ---

1
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN 
GT3 EVO
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 12
 Front » 14
Chassis » 14
 Aero Balance Calculator » 13
Tires & Aero » 12 
 In-Car Dials » 15
 Front Corners » 16 
 Rear » 18
 Rear Corners » 17
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Dampers » 19
 Gears / Differential » 18
 Aerodynamic Targets and Adjustments » 22
 Chassis Adjustments » 22
 Differential Adjustments » 23
Setup Tips » 21
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Lamborgini Huracán GT3 EVO! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
Years of racing heritage come together in the Lamborghini Huracán GT3 EVO, Lamborghini’s latest GT3 
challenger in sports car racing series from around the world. Developed in house in Sant’ Agata Bolognese 
by Lamborghini Squadra Corse, the Huracán GT3 EVO builds on the winning formula of its predecessor, 
the Huracán GT3, with improved aerodynamics developed in conjunction with Dallara and a powerful 
5.2-liter V10 engine.
2020 was a banner year for the car, with a clean sweep of the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar 
Championship’s driver and team titles in both its full-season and endurance race standings for Paul Miller 
Racing. Across the Atlantic, Barwell Motorsport ran the car to Lamborghini’s first British GT title,
while a class victory in the 24 Hours of Spa and multiple GT World Challenge victories rounded out
a stellar season.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | TECH SPECS
ALUMINUM UNIBODY CONSTRUCTION 
WITH CARBON FIBRE BODYWORK
5.2-LITER V10 ENGINE
LENGTH
4550 mm
179 in
WIDTH
2050 mm
81 in
DISPLACEMENT
5.2 Liters
317 CID
TORQUE
400 lb-ft
545 Nm
RPM LIMIT
8500 RPM 
POWER
500 bhp
374 kW
WHEELBASE
2645 mm
104 in
DRY WEIGHT
1285 kg
2833 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1480 kg
3262 lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for
Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick 
changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while
out on the track. 
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting 
the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require 
a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s downshift 
protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling 
too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine damage. 
If that is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when the shift lights on the dashboard 
are fully illuminated in blue. This is at approximately 8000 rpm.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click 
iRacing Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track 
of choice. If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline 
setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to 
use as your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps.
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car 
to your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the 
iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may 
load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting 
the setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes 
in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. 
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | INTRODUCTION
If you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” 
on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of
the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone 
in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage 
to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under 
“Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
DASH CONFIGURATION
The Bosch DDU S2 digital display in the Lamborghini Huracan GT3 EVO offers various formats and options to tailor 
the information on the display to whatever the driver may need or want at any time.
Top Row
TC Current traction control setting (illuminates blue when TC is active)
MAP Current engine map setting (Inoperable)
EPS Inoperable
Gear Currently selected gear
APS Inoperable
S12 Inoperable
ABS Current ABS setting (illuminates blue when ABS is active)
Bottom Row
TGear Gearbox oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
TOil Engine oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
TMot Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Fuel Lap Fuel used this lap (Liters or US Gallons)
Fuel Used Fuel used this stint (Liters or US Gallons)
Center
Speed Vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
RPM Engine RPM
Laptime Current lap time
Diff Difference to best lap time
DA Y & NIGHT PAGES
The Night display page is functionally identical to the Day page, however the colors are inverted to help with vision outside of the car.

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
Top Row
TC Current traction control setting (illuminates blue when TC is active)
ENG Current engine map setting (Inoperable)
HEPS Inoperable
RPM Engine RPM
THR Current throttle map setting
FUNC Inoperable
ABS Current ABS setting (illuminates blue when ABS is active)
Bottom Row
TGear Gearbox oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
TOil Engine oil temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
TMot Engine water temperature (Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Fuel Used Fuel used this stint (Liters or US Gallons)
Center
Gear Vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
Laptime Engine RPM
Speed Current lap time
Gain/Loss Difference to best lap time
Left Side Tire Pressures
The Left-side tire pressures are shown on the left edge of the screen in the larger, unlabeled boxes
(bar or psi)
Left Side Tire Surface 
Temperatures
The Left-side tire surface temperatures are shown next to the tire pressure values in smaller boxes 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit)
Right Side Tire Pressures
The Right-side tire pressures are shown on the right edge of the screen in the larger, unlabeled boxes
(bar or psi)
Right Side Tire Surface 
Temperatures
The Right-side tire surface temperatures are shown next to the tire pressure values in smaller boxes 
(Celsius or Fahrenheit)
MAGNUS QUALI PAGE

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
Top Row
TC Current traction control setting (illuminates blue when TC is active)
MAP Current engine map setting, inoperable
EPS Inoperable
RPM Engine RPM
APS Inoperable
S12 Inoperable
ABS Current ABS setting (illuminates blue when ABS is active)
Bottom Row
Delta Bar Delta bar to best lap time
Center
Laptime Vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
Speed Engine RPM
Gain/Loss Current lap time
Gear Difference to best lap time
Tire Pressures
The Left-side tire pressures are shown on the left edge of the screen in the larger, unlabeled boxes
(bar or psi)
QUALI PAGE

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | DASH PAGES
PIT LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active a large blue box will display across the dashboard along with the center 6 shift light LED’s flashing blue.
SHIFT LIGHTS
1 GREEN 6650 rpm
2 GREEN 6800 rpm
3 GREEN 6950 rpm
4 GREEN 7100 rpm
1 YELLOW 7250 rpm
2 YELLOW 7400 rpm
1 RED 7550 rpm
2 RED 7700 rpm
3 RED 7850 rpm
ALL BLUE 8000 rpm

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
TIRE TYPE
Selects which type of tire is installed on the car when loaded into the 
world. Dry, or slick, tires are used for dry racing conditions while Wet 
tires are intended for raining and wet track conditions.
STARTING PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher 
pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will decrease 
grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but 
will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require higher pressures, 
while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower 
pressures. Cold pressures should be set to track characteristics for 
optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at 
lower pressures and work your way upwards as required.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The 
difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to identify 
how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with 
heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between cold and hot 
pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build 
pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in handling balance 
over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to 
ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once up to operating 
temperature. Hot pressures should be analysed once the tires have 
stabilised after a period of laps. As the number of laps per run will 
vary depending upon track length a good starting point 
is approximately 50% of a full fuel run.
TIRES & AERO
TIRE DATA
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned to the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track are 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
(predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned 
to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible issues 
with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, 
and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to analyze 
the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same 
zones as those of temperature.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the 
shift in aerodynamic balance associated with adjustment of the rear 
wing setting and front and rear ride heights. It is important to note 
that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here DO NOT 
result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however, changes 
to the rear wing angle here WILL be applied to the car.
This calculator is a reference tool ONLY.
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator 
heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using the 
aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at 
any point on track and input that value into the “Front RH at Speed” 
setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride 
heights as this will provide a more accurate representation of the 
current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
AERO BALANCE CALCULATOR
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance 
it is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.
The Wing Setting value in the Aero Calculator section is tied directly 
to the Wing Setting in the Chassis page’s Rear section. Changing one 
will automatically change the other.
% FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front 
axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within the 
calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation 
of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and it can be 
helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track 
to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving in differing 
situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating 
at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will result in more 
oversteer in mid to high speed corners.

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher 
values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, 
increasing roll stiffness in the front suspension and producing the 
same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the diameter 
of the sway bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness 
of the front suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing 
the diameter of the sway bar. These blade adjustments can be 
thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between sway bar diameter 
settings. 6 ARB blade options are available ranging from 1-1 (softest) 
to 3-3 (stiffest).
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the wheel 
is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is 
the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will increase slip in 
the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce the slip. This can be 
used to increase straight-line stability and turn-in responsiveness 
with toe-out. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in responsiveness 
but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the 
brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock 
the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and 
increase brake line pressure to the front brakes, shifting brake bias 
forward and reducing required pedal effort.
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the 
line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder will 
reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake 
bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to lock the rear 
wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase 
brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting brake bias rearward 
and reducing required pedal effort.
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad 
Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, reducing 
the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide 
more friction and increase the effectiveness of the brakes while 
increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across 
the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal for 
non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both 
left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more 
understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in right hand 
corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the 
spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
FRONT WEIGHT DISTRIBUTION (%F WTDIST)
The vehicle’s Front Weight Distribution is the percentage of 
total vehicle weight on the front tires. This represents a rough 
approximation of the longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the 
vehicle and has a direct influence on the high-speed stability of the 
vehicle and low-speed handling balance. Higher Nose Weight values 
result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, good for low-grip tracks 
and situations where the vehicle is set up with extra front downforce. 
Conversely, lower distribution values are good for high-grip tracks 
and configurations with high rear downforce levels.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to 
the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure in 
the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the 
brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lockup the front 
tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. 
This should be tuned for both driver preference and track conditions 
to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. It is 
important to note that differing combinations of master cylinder size 
will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is because 
increasing or reducing the split in master cylinder size difference 
between front and rear axles will produce an inherent forward or 
rearward bias in brake line pressure.
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how 
aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel 
spin. 12 positions are available but only 10 maps exist. Settings 
1-10 range from least intervention/sensitivity (position 1) through 
to highest intervention/sensitivity (position 10). Position 11 is the 
same as position 10 and position 12 disables the traction control 
completely. Positions 3 and 4 are the manufacturer recommended 
baseline settings. More intervention will result in less wheelspin and 
less rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance if the traction 
control is cutting engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner 
exit acceleration.
THROTTLE SHAPE SETTING
Throttle shape setting refers to how changes in the drivers pedal 
position result in changes in provided engine torque. 3 positions 
exist, position 1 results in a linear torque map relative to throttle 
position (e.g. 10% throttle position results in 10% engine torque, 50% 
throttle position results in 50% engine torque and so on.). Position 3 
emulates a non-linear S shaped map similar to a cable throttle which 
results in reduced fidelity in the middle portion of the throttle range. 
Position 2 is a hybrid of position 1 and 3 throttle mapping styles.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. The ABS system features 12 
positions divided into three groups to suit varying track conditions, 
with lower values providing less assistance and higher values 
providing more assistance to prevent brake lockup. Settings 1-6 are 
for slick tires in dry conditions, 7-11 are for wet conditions. Generally, 
setting 7 will be good for light rain while settings will need to be 
increased as conditions worsen, with setting 11 being for heavy rain. 
Setting 12 disables the system completely.
DISPLAY PAGE
Currently displayed in-car dashboard page. 4 display options
are present with 2 options intended for race situations of day
and night and 2 for qualifying. The race options are identical in
terms of displayed information but with differing background
colour while the qualifying options are similar in style but display 
different information.
ENDURANCE LIGHT PACKAGE
This setting determines if the car is fitted with an additional light bar 
on the nose for increased light output during night races.
NIGHT LED STRIPS
Changes the color of the two light strips on the sides of the car. 
Seven options are available: Blue, Purple, Red, Yellow, Orange, 
Green and Off, with no setting influencing the car’s performance.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since 
these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground 
clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of the 
car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is 
key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence the 
vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce as well 
as decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight 
transfer across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing 
ride height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the 
weight transfer across the front axle.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer 
springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic 
performance through improved platform control however, they 
will also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest 
as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer 
springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and 
softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and 
pitch control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered 
when altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same 
front to rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner 
spring stiffness the ARB stiffness (either via blade or diameter 
depending on the size of the corner spring change) should be 
increased to retain the same roll stiffness as previously. Spring 
perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior static 
ride heights after any spring rate change.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber 
is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber values will 
increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce 
the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have under braking. 
Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces 
but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find 
a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber 
values will typically result in increased front axle grip during mid to 
high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance 
and necessitate a rearward shift in brake bias to compensate.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. 
Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce as well as 
increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer 
across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, reducing ride 
height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall 
downforce while reducing the weight transfer across the rear axle. 
Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical 
and aerodynamic balance considerations and static rear ride heights 
should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner 
springs for optimal performance.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
UUsed to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing 
the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch offset 
will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring 
perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These changes should 
be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same 
corner ride heights and no change in cross weight. The spring perch 
offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to 
change the static cross weight in the car.
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts 
of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip capability; 
however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative to 
the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the rear tires are 
25 mm (~1”) wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear 
tires must also perform the duty of driving the car forwards where 
benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced 
longitudinal (traction) performance.
SPRING RATE
Similar to the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance 
in ride height between high and low load cases and will produce 
superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform 
control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be particularly 
prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle 
application. Stiffer springs will tend to react poorly during these 
instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant 
traction loss. Spring stiffness should be matched to the needs of 
the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent 
between high and low speed cornering. As an example case, a car 
which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer 
could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow 
for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer 
during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing 
the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic 
balance forwards and reduce understeer. Spring perch offsets must 
be adjusted to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any 
spring rate change.
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will 
result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in response 
during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided 
if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce straight line 
speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that the values 
are for each individual wheel as opposed to paired as at the front. 
This means that individual values on the rear wheels are twice as 
powerful as the combined adjustment at the front of the car when 
the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised to keep 
the left and right toe values equal to prevent crabbing or asymmetric 
handling behaviour however, heavily asymmetric tracks such as 
Lime Rock Park may see a benefit in performance from running 
asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other setup parameters.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank when the car is loaded into 
the world. 
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be 
changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher 
values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, 
increasing roll stiffness in the rear suspension and producing the 
same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the diameter 
of the sway bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the roll stiffness 
of the rear suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing 
the diameter of the sway bar. These blade adjustments can be 
thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between sway bar diameter 
settings.6 ARB blade options are available ranging from 1-1 (softest)
to 3-3 (stiffest).
REAR WING ANGLE
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear 
wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a significant 
impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car 
as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car rearwards 
with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more 
total cornering grip capability in medium to high speed corners but 
will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle 
should be adjusted in conjunction with front and rear ride heights, 
specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights 
known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall aerodynamic balance it 
is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the 
rear wing angle.
The Wing Setting value in the Chassis > Rear section is tied directly 
to the Wing Setting in the Aero Calculator section. Changing one will 
automatically change the other.
GEARS / DIFFERENTIAL
SIXTH GEAR
Two options for 6th gear are available for selection depending 
upon track type. The FIA gear is shorter and should be used at the 
majority of tracks while the IMSA Daytona gear should be used at 
Daytona and Le Mans to prevent reaching the rev limiter before the 
end of the straightaways.
FRICTION FACES
The number of friction faces in the differential affect how much 
overall force is applied to keep the rear axle locked. Treated as a 
multiplier, adding more faces produces increasingly more locking 
force. For example, 8 friction faces will have twice the locking force 
of 4 faces, which will have twice the force of 2 faces. 
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the 
differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both 
sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle 
application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behaviour as the differential locking 
force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload 
should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner exit 
drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and 
brake in low to mid speed corners.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | DAMPERS
DAMPERS
FRONT DAMPERS
REAR DAMPERS
COMPRESSION DAMPING
The Front Damper Compression setting controls the shock’s 
stiffness when the suspension is compressing, with a single setting 
controlling both the high- and low-speed damping values. Higher 
values (closer to zero) will increase damping forces and resist 
compression, lower values (more negative) will allow the shock 
to compress more easily. 
At the front of the car, increasing compression can induce 
understeer while braking and at turn-in, but can also help to produce 
better aerodynamic performance with the chassis’s movement being 
slowed through changing loads. Reducing compression will allow 
the front end to compress faster, inducing oversteer at turn in 
and reducing straight-line stability under heavy braking.
COMPRESSION DAMPING
The Rear Damper Compression setting controls the shock’s 
stiffness when the suspension is compressing, with a single setting 
controlling both the high- and low-speed damping values. Higher 
values(closer to zero) will increase damping forces and resist 
compression, lower values (more negative) will allow the shock 
to compress more easily. 
At the rear of the car, increasing compression can induce 
understeer on throttle and corner exit, but can also help to produce 
better aerodynamic performance with the chassis’s movement being 
slowed through changing loads. Reducing compression will allow 
the rear end to compress faster, inducing oversteer on 
throttle application.
REBOUND DAMPING
The Front Damper Rebound setting controls the shock’s stiffness 
when the suspension is expanding, with a single setting controlling 
both high- and low-speed damping values.Higher values (closer 
to zero) will increase damping forces and will try to keep the 
suspension compressed when loads are removed, while lower values 
(more negative) will allow the suspension to expand more easily.
For the front of the car, increasing rebound can increase 
aerodynamic performance at high speed by keeping the front 
of the car lower as loads reduce. This can also cause the front 
tires to unload, especially over a bumpy track surface, and induce 
understeer on throttle and at high speeds. Reducing front rebound 
will help with front-end mechanical grip, inducing oversteer on 
throttle, but can reduce aerodynamic performance by allowing 
too much chassis movement.
REBOUND DAMPING
The Rear Damper Rebound setting controls the shock’s stiffness 
when the suspension is expanding, with a single setting controlling 
both high- and low-speed damping values. Higher values (closer 
to zero) will increase damping forces and will try to keep the 
suspension compressed when loads are removed, while lower values 
(more negative) will allow the suspension to expand more easily.
For the rear of the car, increasing rebound can decrease 
aerodynamic drag slightly at high speed by keeping the rear of 
the car lower as loads reduce. This can also cause the rear tires to 
unload, especially over a bumpy track surface, and induce oversteer 
at high speeds. Reducing rear rebound will help with rear-end 
mechanical grip, inducing understeer when braking, but can reduce 
aerodynamic performance by allowing too much chassis movement.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
SETUP TIPS
If the setup fails tech inspection, it is likely the ride heights require 
adjustment. This is performed by using the spring perch offsets 
at either end of the car. Right clicks (positive) will reduce the ride 
height while left clicks (negative) will increase the ride height. 
In the iRacing Setups folder you will find a variety of setups.
Baseline is a 100% fuel load setup which is intended solely for 
loading the car at every possible track. As such, this setup should 
always pass tech inspection at every fuel load and track but will 
not provide ultimate performance.
Setups labeled ‘_wet’ have wet tyres pre-fitted and setup 
adjustments to suit wet conditions.
Setups labeled ‘_sprint’ have a 50% fuel load, a more aggressive 
balance and are intended for use where there is either a fuel 
limitation OR race lengths are approximately 25 to 30 minutes in 
length. These setups are intended to be used in competition. 
Should you wish to drive at a track not listed it is recommended 
to start out with the High Downforce setup first before evaluating 
the other downforce level options. A good indicator of if a track 
may benefit from a reduction in downforce trim is the maximum 
speed reached. 
Tracks Downforce Level Tracks Downforce Level
Autodromo Jose Carlos Pace High/Medium Long Beach Street Circuit High
Autodromo Nazionale Monza Medium Motorsports Arena Oschersleben High
Brands Hatch Circuit High Mount Panorama Circuit High/Medium
Circuit de Barcelona Catalunya High Nürburgring Grand-Prix-Strecke High
Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours High/Medium Okayama International Circuit High
Circuit de Spa-Francorchamps Medium Road America High/Medium
Circuit des 24 Heures Du Mans Medium Sebring International Raceway High
Daytona International Speedway Low/Medium Silverstone Circuit High/Medium
Detroit Grand Prix at Belle Isle High Sonoma Raceway High
Fuji International Speedway High/Medium Virginia International Raceway High/Medium
Hungaroring High Watkins Glen International High/Medium
Indianapolis Motor Speedway Medium WeatherTech Raceway at Laguna Seca High
Lime Rock Park High
Speed Downforce Level
Max Speed under 250 km/h (155 mph) High Downforce
Max Speed 250 to 270 km/h Medium
Max Speed over 270 km/h (167 mph) Low to Minimum Downforce
Setups labeled ‘_endurance’ have a 100% fuel load and are for 
use where no fuel restriction is present and/or race lengths are 
approximately 1 hour or more in length.
The setup titled ‘fixed’ is the setup used in the fixed setup series 
and is similar to the high_downforce_sprint setup.
Setups labeled ‘nurburgring_’ are built with 70 mm minimum 
ride heights and are for use solely on Nürburgring Nordschleife 
configurations.
The setup titled ‘challenge’ is the setup used in the Ferrari Challenge 
fixed setup series.
While most tracks will trend towards favoring more downforce there 
can be some instances where reducing rear wing angle for less drag 
may be beneficial. As a rough guide, you can expect the following 
downforce trims at the following tracks:
The following boundaries are suggestions for what trim level may 
be optimal but please note that other factors such as track design 
(number of high speed corners, etc), altitude and ambient conditions 
will also impact your decision here with higher altitude tracks and 
hotter ambient conditions favoring more downforce.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
AERODYNAMIC TARGETS AND ADJUSTMENTS
GT3 cars are very sensitive to small variations in ride heights at both 
the front and rear axle and this must be kept in mind when making 
setup adjustments such as static ride heights, corner spring rates 
and rear wing angle. 
The optimal configuration for most total downforce is as follows:
• Rear Wing Angle: +12
• Dynamic Front Ride Height: 40.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
• Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 62.0 mm (+/-2.5 mm)
Should you go over or under the ride height targets stated above you 
will begin to lose overall downforce. It is very important to consider 
all aspects of the track when aiming for this maximum downforce 
target. Consider that if the rear ride height increases beyond the 
target during braking, you will experience both a balance shift 
forwards and a loss in overall downforce resulting in a destabilizing 
situation. It is these braking considerations that will govern how 
closely you can approach this maximum in a real world situation. 
The optimal configuration for the least total drag is as follows:
• Rear Wing Angle: +2
• Dynamic Front Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
• Dynamic Rear Ride Height: 17.5 mm (+/- 2.5 mm)
For the majority of tracks, it will be difficult to achieve ride heights 
low enough to hit these drag targets; however, it is possible at a 
track such as Daytona. Please keep in mind that your absolute 
minimums are governed by the road surface and that while 
aerodynamic drag will decrease as you approach these targets, 
overall drag may increase if the car starts to make ground contact. 
It should also be stated that this low drag trim is neither optimal for 
total downforce nor handling balance. 
When adjusting the rear wing angle, the following adjustments 
should be made to retain aerodynamic balance: 
Rear Wing Angle: +1
Front Ride Height: -1.2 mm
OR
Rear Ride Height: +3.6 mm
Rear Wing Angle: -1 
Front Ride Height: +1.2 mm
OR 
Rear Ride Height: -3.6 mm
It is also possible to combine adjustments of front and rear ride 
height together if necessary (such as when lower rear heights 
cannot be easily achieved), this can result in more overall downforce 
being retained when reducing wing angle without detrimentally 
impacting the balance but at the cost of slightly increased 
aerodynamic drag. 
These reference values are provided as targets to aim for, however, 
overall car balance should remain the priority. It may not be possible 
to achieve a good balance at these targets in certain situations and 
as such, you should elect to sacrifice some raw performance for a 
better balance. 
Lower Rear Wing Angle = More oversteer, less downforce, less drag, 
lower cornering speed, higher straight line speed. 
Higher Rear Wing Angle = More understeer, more downforce, more 
drag, higher cornering speed, lower straight line speed
CHASSIS ADJUSTMENTS
Should you wish to adjust the underpinning balance of the car 
without impacting the aero platform significantly in pitch and heave, 
or adjusting the differential then front and rear adjustable anti-roll 
bars are available.
Stiffer front ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front ARB -> More Oversteer
Stiffer rear ARB -> More Oversteer
Softer rear ARB -> More Understeer
Softer front AND rear ARB -> Reduced aerodynamic performance, 
more mechanical grip (good for rough surfaces) and slower response 
to inputs.
Stiffer front AND rear ARB -> Increased aerodynamic performance 
(good for fast sweeping corners), less mechanical grip and increased 
response to inputs.

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | USER MANUAL
LAMBORGHINI HURACÁN GT3 EVO | SETUP TIPS
DIFFERENTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
Two adjustment options are available for the differential. 
More friction faces -> More off throttle understeer, more on 
throttle oversteer, less inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces 
and kerb strikes.
Less friction faces -> Less off throttle understeer, less on throttle 
oversteer, more inside wheelspin-up on rough surfaces and kerb 
strikes. Typically better at tracks like Spa or those with smooth 
surfaces and flat kerbing. 
Friction faces are dominant at high input torques such as full throttle, 
sustained braking or pure coastdown.
Preload is additive to the total locking torque of the differential 
and acts as an offset torque which is always present, even at zero 
input torque. This means that it is more dominant during transition 
behavior where the differential input torque is near zero, such as at 
throttle lift and/or during initial trail braking. 
More preload -> Less liftoff oversteer, more corner entry stability, 
more off throttle understeer, more on throttle oversteer. 
Less preload -> More liftoff oversteer, less corner entry stability, 
less off throttle understeer, less on throttle oversteer.