--- PAGE 1 ---

1
MERCEDES AMG GT3
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Dash Configuration » 8
 Pit Limiter & Shift Lights » 9
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
Tires & Aero » 10 
 Lighting Indicators » 7
 Tire Settings » 10
 In-Car Dials » 14
Chassis » 13
 Rear Corners » 18
 Aero Calculator » 11
 Front Corners » 15
 Front » 13
 Rear » 20
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
Table of Contents
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Mercedes AMG GT3! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we 
hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
With a lineage hearkening back to the SLS AMG GT3 and more than 180 wins in international competition 
from Bathurst and Dubai to Spa and the Nürburgring, the Mercedes AMG GT3 is a potent addition to the 
GT3 category. While styling cues like its gullwing doors and Panamericana radiator grille pay homage to 
Mercedes’ glorious history, the Mercedes AMG GT3 epitomizes state-of-the-art technology with its “front 
mid-engine” 6.2 liter, DOHC V8 and six speed sequential gearbox mounted in a transaxle to provide optimum 
weight distribution. Aluminum, double wishbone suspension, multi-disc, limited-slip differential and traction 
control complete a package campaigned by the likes of Black Falcon, Fortec, GT Russian and Rowe Racing in 
the Blancpain GT and Blancpain Endurance Series.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off of 
the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in getting up 
to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!
3

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
RPM LIMIT
7500RPM
 
POWER 
UNIT
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | TECH SPECS
V8 DOHC
LENGTH
4710mm
185.4in
DISPLACEMENT
6.2Liters
378.8CID
TORQUE
460lb-ft
625Nm
WIDTH
1990mm
78.3in
POWER
500bhp
373kW
WHEELBASE
2635mm
103.7in
DRY WEIGHT
1285kg
2833lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1412kg
3112lbs
DOUBLE WISHBONE FRONT AND 
REAR SUSPENSION

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
Introduction
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the 
chassis setup adjustments available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune 
the chassis setup to your preference. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become familiar with the car 
and track. T o that end, we have provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced 
by these cars. T o access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing Setups, 
and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which 
a dedicated baseline setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use 
as your baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus on 
making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing line and experiencing tire 
wear and handling trends over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential with the included baseline 
setups, read on to begin tuning the car to your handling preferences.
GETTING STARTED
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the accelerator 
pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require a clutch input to shift in either direction. However the car’s 
downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if it feels you are traveling too fast for the gear selected and would incur engine 
damage. If that is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended when the final green light illuminates in the shift light cluster. This is at approximately 6500rpm.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
Upon loading into a session, the car will automatically load the iRacing Baseline setup [baseline.sto]. If you would prefer one of 
iRacing’s pre-built setups that suit various conditions, you may load it by clicking Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting the 
setup to suit your needs.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If you 
would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. 
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. 
If you would like to share a setup with another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the 
garage to do so. 
If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well. 
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
Dash Pages
The dash display in this car is non-adjustable and features a single page to 
display critical vehicle information.
LIGHTING INDICATORS
LEFT LIGHT STACK
ABS ABS warning, illuminated when ABS is disabled
ASR Traction control warning, illuminated when traction control is disabled
RIGHT LIGHT STACK
HIGHBEAM Indicates if the headlight high beam is active in the real car
LOWBEAM Indicates if the headlight low beam is active (always illuminated)
INDICATOR Indicates if the side indicators are active in the real car
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
DASH CONFIGURATION
TOP ROW
RPM METER Graphical depiction of engine rpm
SECOND ROW
T WATER Engine water temperature (°C or °F)
LAP Current session lap
LAPTIME DIFF Current lap time
SPEED Road speed (km/h or mph)
THIRD ROW
P OIL Engine oil pressure (Bar or psi)
GEAR Currently selected gear
ABS Current ABS setting
TC Current traction control setting
FOURTH ROW
T GEAR Gearbox oil temperature (°C or °F)
MAP Current engine map setting
FUEL CALC Remaining fuel (Litres or US gallons)
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
PIT LIMITER
When the pit limiter is active a large blue box that includes the current road speed will display across the top of the dashboard 
while the center six shift light LED’s will illuminate in a yellow and blue sequence.
SHIFT LIGHTS
2 GREEN 6200 rpm
4 GREEN 6300 rpm
6 GREEN 6400 rpm
8 GREEN 6500 rpm
2 RED 6600 rpm
ALL RED 6800 rpm
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
Tires & Aero
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR)
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set 
to track characteristics for optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at lower pressures and work your 
way upwards as required.
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects 
of the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to 
significant changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in 
an incremental fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO
HOT AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between 
cold and hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change 
in handling balance over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar 
pressures once up to operating temperature. Hot pressures should be analysed once the tires have stabilised after a period of 
laps. As the number of laps per run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is approximately 50% of a full fuel 
run.
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work 
a tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are 
useful for analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured in three zones across 
the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible 
issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same zones as those of temperature. 
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the shift in aerodynamic 
balance associated with adjustment of the rear wing setting and front and rear ride 
heights. It is important to note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here 
DO NOT result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however , changes to the rear 
wing angle here WILL be applied to the car . This calculator is a reference tool ONL Y . 
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using 
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride heights as this will provide a more accurate 
representation of the current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using 
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride heights as this will provide a more accurate 
representation of the current aero platform rather than using a single corner height.
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a 
significant impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car 
rearwards with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more total cornering grip capability in medium to high 
speed corners but will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle should be adjusted in conjunction with front 
and rear ride heights, specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall 
aerodynamic balance it is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear wing angle.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within 
the calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and 
it can be helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving 
in differing situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will 
result in more oversteer in mid to high speed corners.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
Chassis
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the number of ARB arms will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing 
mechanical understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel from the driver. Conversely, 
reducing the number of ARB arms will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. 
This can result in a less-responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle will increase. Along with this, the effects 
of softening or stiffening the ARB assembly in relation to aerodynamics should also be considered, softer ARB assemblies will 
result in more body roll which will decrease control of the aero platform in high speed corners and potentially lead to a loss in aero 
efficiency. 10 configurations of ARB arms are available and range from D1-D1 (softest) to D6-D6 (stiffest).
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will 
increase slip in the inside tire while adding toe-in will reduce the slip. Toe-out will decrease straight-line stability but will increase 
turn-in responsiveness. Toe-in at the front will reduce turn-in responsiveness but will reduce temperature buildup in the front tires.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master 
cylinder will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort 
required to lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase brake line pressure to the front 
brakes, shifting brake bias forward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder options are available ranging 
from 15.9 mm / 0.626” (highest line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the rear wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting 
brake bias rearward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder options are available ranging from 15.9 mm / 
0.626” (highest line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, 
reducing the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the effectiveness of the 
brakes while increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal 
for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in 
right hand corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car.
IN-CAR DIALS
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure 
in the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock 
up the front tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. It is important to note that differing combinations 
of master cylinder size will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is because increasing or reducing the split in 
master cylinder size difference between front and rear axles will produce an inherent forward or rearward bias in brake line 
pressure. 
TRACTION CONTROL SWITCH
This option determines if traction control is enabled, allowing you to completely disable the system if desired.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING
The position of the traction control switch determines how aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel spin. 
12 positions are available. Settings 1-12 range from most intervention/sensitivity (position 1) through to least intervention/
sensitivity (position 12). Position 6 is the recommended baseline setting. More intervention will result in less wheelspin and less 
rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance if the traction control is cutting engine torque too aggressively and stunting 
corner exit acceleration. 
ENGINE MAP SETTING
The fuel map on which the car is currently running. Position 3 is the base map and produces maximum power but the most fuel 
usage. Positions 1 and 2 are for fuel saving and will reduce engine power output correspondingly. The lower the number the better 
the fuel economy but the lower the power output.
ABS SWITCH
This option determines if the anti-lock braking system is enabled, allowing you to completely disable the system if desired.
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. 12 positions are available. Position 1 has the least intervention/support while position 
11 has the most support. Position 12 disables the ABS completely. Position 4 is the recommended baseline setting. More 
intervention reduces the possibility of and the duration of lockups during braking but can result in longer braking distances if the 
system is set overly aggressive for the amount of available grip.
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of 
the car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence 
the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce 
as well as decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle. Minimum legal 
front ride height is 50.0 mm.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch 
offset will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These 
changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in 
the car. 
SPRING SET
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. The Mercedes AMG GT3 is unique in that corner springs cannot 
be changed independently but instead are separated into 3 packages. Spring Set 1 should be treated as the baseline setup and 
utilizes 275 N/mm (1571 lbs/in) front springs with 250 N/mm (1429 lbs/in) rear springs. Set 2 is the most aggressive spring 
package utilising 225 N/mm (1286 lbs/in) front springs with 250 N/mm (1429 lbs/in) rear springs and will shift the balance 
towards oversteer (loose). Set 3 is the most conservative option featuring 275 N/mm (1571 lbs/in) front springs with 225 N/
mm (1286 lbs/in) rear springs which will shift the balance towards understeer (tight). Corner spring changes will influence both 
roll and pitch control of the platform and ARB changes should be considered when altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to 
retain the same front to rear roll stiffness and overall balance. When reducing corner spring stiffness the ARB stiffness should be 
increased to retain the same roll stiffness as previously. As an example case, a car which suffers from high speed understeer but 
low speed oversteer could benefit from an increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static rear height which will 
reduce rear weight transfer during slow speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height in high speed 
cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance forwards and reduce understeer. Spring perch offsets must always be adjusted to 
return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring set change.
BUMP RUBBERS
Bump rubbers are an option that may be fitted to the front suspension for additional ride height control and increased effective 
front suspension stiffness. These rubbers act as non-linear rising rate springs which will produce exceptional ride height control on 
smooth tracks however, fitting them will result in a reduction in mechanical grip at this axle and poorer absorption of large impacts 
such as kerb strikes. As such, they are best avoided at rougher tracks.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to compresion (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering 
forces. In this case 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) while 8 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car 
during transient movements such as braking and direction change with increased damping usually providing an increase in turn-in 
response but a reduction in overall grip in the context of front dampers.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less 
high speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 8 is maximum 
damping while 1 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
as a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being unloaded when the 
suspension can’t expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, higher front low speed 
rebound can increase on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce nose lift) while lower values will maintain front end grip 
longer, helping to reduce understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due 
to the wheel bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying in contact. 8 is maximum damping (most resistant to extension) 
while 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING:
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. 8 is maximum damping while 1 is minimum damping.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber 
values will increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have 
under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is 
important to find a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber values will typically result in increased front 
axle grip during mid to high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and necessitate a rearward shift in 
brake bias to compensate. 
CASTER
Caster is the vertical angle of the steering axis relative to the side view of the chassis. Positive caster angle is where the steering 
axis is leaned rearwards from this viewpoint, the more caster the larger the total trail of the contact patch behind the steering 
axis. More caster angle will result in the mechanical trail being a larger proportion of the felt steering weight relative to the tires 
pneumatic trail. This will result in a heavier overall steering feel but a possible loss in felt feedback from the tire. Increasing caster 
angle will also have secondary effects such as an increase in dynamic camber when turning the wheel through large steering 
angles which can be beneficial in chicances or hairpins. As well as this the more caster angle the greater the jacking effect during 
cornering which will result in lifting the inside front wheel while lowering the outside front wheel. This jacking effect will also result 
in the unloading and potentially lifting of the inside rear wheel which can aid in rotation around tight corners. 
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
REAR CORNERS
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer 
across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations 
and static rear ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance. 
Minimum legal rear ride height is 50.0 mm while maximum legal rear ride height is 92.5 mm. 
BUMP RUBBERS
Bump rubbers are an option that may be fitted to the rear suspension for additional ride height control and increased effective 
rear suspension stiffness. These rubbers act as non-linear rising rate springs which will produce exceptional ride height control on 
smooth tracks however, fitting them will result in a reduction in mechanical grip at this axle and poorer absorption of large impacts 
such as kerb strikes. As such, they are best avoided at rougher tracks.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to compresion (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering 
forces. In this case 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) while 8 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car 
during transient movements such as braking and direction change with increased damping usually increasing the cars tendency to 
understeer on throttle application.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less 
high speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 8 is maximum 
damping while 1 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
as a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. As at the front, high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control for aerodynamic performance and overall 
chassis response but it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this can result in the tire 
losing complete contact with the track surface. Provided this is avoided,, an increase in rebound stiffness can help to ‘slow down’ 
the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are applied, increasing braking stability and off-throttle mechanical understeer. 8 is 
maximum damping (most resistant to extension) while 1 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING:
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. 8 is maximum damping while 1 is minimum damping.
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip 
capability however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the 
rear tires are 25 mm (~1”) wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must also perform the duty of driving the 
car forwards where benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced longitudinal (traction) performance. 
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increasing toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction in 
response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and reduce 
straight line speeds.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | USER MANUAL
REAR
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Tank capacity is 120 L (31.7 g). Adjustable in 1 L (0.26 g) increments.
ARB ARMS
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. 
Increasing the ARB assembly stiffness will increase the roll stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but 
increasing mechanical oversteer. This can also cause the car “take a set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing 
the ARB assembly stiffness will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer. This can 
result in a less-responsive feel from the rear especially in transient movements, but grip across the rear axle will increase. 4 
configurations of ARB arms are available and range from D1 (softest) to D4 (stiffest).
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behaviour as the differential locking force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner 
exit drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and brake in low to mid speed corners.
MERCEDES AMG GT3 | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS