--- PAGE 1 ---

1
NASCAR O’REILL Y CARS
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
Dash Configurations » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Tire Data » 14
 Front » 15
Chassis » 15
Tires & Aero » 14 
 Front ARB » 16
 Front Corners » 17 
 Rear » 21
 Rear Corners » 19
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION
Setup & Driving Tips » 23
SETUP TIPS

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of a NASCAR O’Reilly Series car! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The NASCAR O’Reilly Series is the final step on the stock car ladder to the NASCAR Cup Series Chevys, 
Fords and Toyotas raced in the NASCAR iRacing.com Class A Series, the NASCAR iRacing Series and the 
eNASCAR Coca-Cola iRacing Series. These cars have been updated with an all-new build reflecting their 
performance in the current NASCAR XFINITY Series season. 
Like their NASCAR Truck Series counterparts, these cars are powered by a 358 cu in (5.8 liter) pushrod 
V8 putting out 650-700 hp (450 hp with restrictor plates) and sports non-adjustable nose “splitters” and 
rear spoilers along with a variety of safety features including double frame rails aligning with front and 
rear bumpers to improve protection in side impacts.
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings 
off of the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in 
getting up to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE INDEPENDENT 
FRONT, LIVE AXLE TRUCK ARM REAR
NATURALL Y ASPIRATED 
STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
4953 mm
195 in
WIDTH
1803 mm
71 in
WHEELBASE
2794 mm
110 in
DRY WEIGHT
1556 kg
3430 lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1631 kg
3596 lbs
DISPLACEMENT
5.86 Liters
358 CID
TORQUE
500 lb-ft
678 Nm
RPM LIMIT
9000 RPM 
POWER
675 bhp
503 kW

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
INTRODUCTION
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the chassis setup adjustments 
available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune the chassis setup to your preference.
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. Give 
it a bit of throttle and ease off the clutch pedal to get underway. 
This car uses an h-pattern transmission, but only requires the clutch 
pedal to get the car rolling and when coming to a stop in gear.
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | INTRODUCTION
GETTING STARTED
To upshift, simply let off the throttle and select the next higher 
gear. To downshift, give the throttle a blip while selecting the next 
lower gear. Upshifting is recommended when the red RPM warning 
light illuminates. If you downshift too early, or don’t blip the throttle 
sufficiently, the wheel speed and engine speed will be mismatched, 
leading to wheel hop at the rear and a possible spin.
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become 
familiar with the car and track. To that end, we have provided 
baseline setups for each track commonly raced by these cars.
To access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing 
Setups, and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice.
If you are driving a track for which a dedicated baseline setup is
not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use as 
your baseline.
After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus 
on making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing 
line and experiencing tire wear and handling trends over a number 
of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential 
with the included baseline setups, read on to begin tuning the car to 
your handling preferences.

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will
be automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any of 
the other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to 
Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option that 
fits your needs.
Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body 
configurations on different types of tracks, it will be necessary to 
load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection.
For example, a setup for Talladega will pass at Daytona, but likely will 
not pass at Bristol. If you would like to customize the setup, simply 
make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and 
click apply. If you would like to save your setup for future use click 
“Save As” on the right to name and save the changes.
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | INTRODUCTION
To access all of your personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on 
the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with 
another driver or everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on 
the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a 
setup with you, you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right 
side of the garage as well.

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
For the Chevrolet, the two gauges to the left are oil temperature and water temperature respectively, with the cluster of four gauges including 
the charging system volts, water pressure, oil pressure, and fuel pressure, and the large gauge being the tachometer. The tachometer includes 
an array of LED lights in the center that illuminate yellow when approaching pit speed limit, green when running at the limit, and red when the 
limit is exceeded. When green and red, the RPM numbers and increments also illuminate. This light sequence is calibrated for the speed of the 
car when it is running in 2nd gear. The RPM numbers and increments alone will illuminate red when the RPM limit is approached.
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | DASH PAGES
DASH PAGES
Each manufacturer has its own unique dash and gauge cluster configuration, but each provides the same information, 
with the exception that the Toyota does not include cooling system pressure. Oil temperature and water temperature are 
important gauges for ensuring the engine is running in its optimal temperature range and preventing damage to the engine. 
These will turn red when the values are in a dangerous range. If they turn red in normal driving, it may be necessary to 
reduce tape on the grill opening, or make a gear change to reduce RPM. If they turn red while drafting in a pack, it will be 
necessary to pull out of the pack and cool the engine. If this happens too often, reducing the tape may be necessary to run 
in the pack competitively. 
CHEVROLET CAMARO

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
FORD MUSTANG
TOYOTA SUPRA
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | DASH PAGES
For the Ford, the smaller gauges in order from left to right are the water temperature, cooling system pressure, charging system volts, oil 
temperature, oil pressure, and fuel pressure. The large central gauge is the tachometer. The tachometer includes an array of LED lights in the 
center that illuminate yellow when approaching pit speed limit, green when running at the limit, and red when the limit is exceeded. When 
green and red, the RPM numbers and increments also illuminate. This light sequence is calibrated for the speed of the car when it is running in 
2nd gear. The RPM numbers and increments alone will illuminate red when the RPM limit is approached.
For the Toyota, the two gauges to the left are oil temperature and oil pressure, the two gauges to the right are water temperature and charging 
system volts, and the lone gauge in the center of the car is fuel pressure, with the large gauge being the tachometer. The tachometer includes 
an array of LED lights around the rim that illuminate yellow when approaching pit speed limit, green when running at the limit, and red when the 
limit is exceeded. When green and red, the RPM numbers and increments also illuminate. This light sequence is calibrated for the speed of the 
car when it is running in 2nd gear. The RPM numbers and increments alone will illuminate red when the RPM limit is approached.

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | DASH PAGES
NASCAR does not allow the use of either a speedometer or a pit speed limiter, thus the pit road speed limit can only be followed by running 
a specific RPM in a given gear. To help the driver maintain proper pit road speed without having to look at the tachometer, the Spek Pro 
tachometer features Pit Speed lights, which illuminate either yellow, green, or red to show whether the vehicle is traveling too slowly or 
speeding on pit road. These lights are accurate to a track’s pit road speed limit only when the transmission is in 2nd Gear, and are set 
automatically when loading a track in the sim.
PIT SPEED INDICATOR
FORD MUSTANG & CHEVROLET CAMARO
APPROACHING PIT SPEED LIMIT
If the vehicle is below the pit road speed limit, the tachometer will illuminate the speed lights in yellow, with 1 light being farthest from pit road 
speed and all 7 being moderately slower than the pit road speed limit, usually just a few miles-per-hour slower than the limit.
As the vehicle’s speed approaches the pit road speed limit (but is not exceeding the speed limit), the pit lights will turn green, with 1 green light 
being the farthest from the pit road speed limit and 6 lights being just underneath the pit road speed limit.
TACHOMETER

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
AT PIT SPEED LIMIT
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | DASH PAGES
When the vehicle is traveling at the pit road speed limit, the 7th light will illuminate in green and the backlight color will change to green, 
illuminating the entire gauge with a green light.
EXCEEDING PIT SPEED LIMIT
SHIFT LIGHT
When the pit road speed limit is exceeded, the entire gauge backlight will turn red and the speed lights will also change from green to red. 
Similar to the other modes, 1 red light is just above pit road speed limit and each additional light signals the vehicle is exceeding the speed 
limit. If the vehicle continues accelerating after the 7th red light, all speed lights will turn off and the backlight will return to its standard color.
The tachometer is also equipped with a Shift Light mode, which turns the gauge backlight to red. This is distinguishable from the pit road 
speeding mode by the speed lights being off, and will be enabled just before the engine reaches the rev limiter.

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | DASH PAGES
PIT SPEED INDICATOR
APPROACHING PIT SPEED LIMIT
TOYOTA SUPRA
If the vehicle is below the pit road speed limit, the tachometer will illuminate the speed lights in yellow, with 1 light being farthest from pit road 
speed and all 7 being moderately slower than the pit road speed limit, usually just a few miles-per-hour slower than the limit.
As the vehicle’s speed approaches the pit road speed limit (but is not exceeding the speed limit), the pit lights will turn green, with 1 green light 
being the farthest from the pit road speed limit and 9 lights being just underneath the pit road speed limit.
TACHOMETER

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | DASH PAGES
AT PIT SPEED LIMIT
EXCEEDING PIT SPEED LIMIT
SHIFT LIGHT
When the vehicle is traveling at the pit road speed limit, the 10th light will illuminate in green and the backlight color will change to green, 
illuminating the entire gauge with a green light.
When the vehicle is traveling at the pit road speed limit, the 10th light will illuminate in green and the backlight color will change to green, 
illuminating the entire gauge with a green light.
The tachometer is also equipped with a Shift Light mode, which turns the gauge backlight to red. This is distinguishable from the pit road 
speeding mode by the speed lights being off, and will be enabled just before the engine reaches the rev limiter.

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects of the 
vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to significant 
changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in an incremental fashion 
and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS 

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO 
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world.
Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup,
but will decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag
and heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads
will require higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will
see better performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures
should be set to track characteristics for optimum performance.
For typical road courses or for oval left side tires, lower tire 
pressures are recommended. For oval right side tires, the greater 
loads experienced by the tires require higher starting pressures.
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits.
The difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, 
with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between Cold 
and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way 
should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change in 
handling balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should 
be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar pressures once 
up to operating temperature. On ovals, the right front and right rear 
would be similar, and the left front and left rear would be similar.
On road courses, the left front and right front would be similar,
and the left rear and right rear would be similar.
TIRES
TIRE DATA
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures once the car has returned from the pits. 
Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is 
reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful 
for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner 
and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment 
while on track. These values are measured in three zones across the 
tread of the tire. For ovals, the left sides of the tires should typically 
be the most heavily loaded and hottest, so the outsides of the left 
side tires and insides of right side tires. For road courses, the insides 
of each tire should carry the greatest loads and temperatures.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has 
returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any 
possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing 
excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures 
to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in 
three zones across the tread of the tire.

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
CHASSIS
FRONT
BALLAST FORWARD
To meet minimum weight requirements, tungsten blocks are installed 
within the lower frame rails on the chassis. These blocks can be 
moved fore and aft in the chassis, directly influencing the car’s Nose 
Weight value. The Ballast Forward value is simply a measurement of 
the location of these tungsten blocks relative to a reference point in 
the frame rail. Moving ballast forward in the car raises Nose Weight, 
moving it rearward reduces Nose Weight.
NOSE WEIGHT 
The vehicle’s Nose Weight is the percentage of total vehicle weight 
on the front tires, directly adjustable through the Ballast Forward 
adjustment. Nose Weight represents a rough approximation of the 
longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has a direct 
influence on the high-speed stability of the vehicle. Higher Nose 
Weight values result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, good for 
low-grip tracks and situations where the vehicle is set up with extra 
front downforce. Conversely, lower Nose Weight values are good for 
high-grip tracks and configurations with high rear downforce levels. 
Smaller tracks will also see benefits from lower Nose Weight values, 
as it will allow the rear of the vehicle to rotate easier.
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and 
Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset 
adjustments as well as Front ARB preload and, to a very small extent, 
the Truck Arm Preload. For an oval car, Cross Weight is one of the 
most influential settings for grip level and handling balance.
Higher Cross Weight values will add weight to the left-rear and 
right-front, both stabilizing entry and helping drive-off on corner 
exit. Lower Cross-Weight values will help the vehicle rotate and keep 
it “free” in the corner to prevent speed from being lost, however too 
low can result in unstable entry and exit.
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering 
response is to driver inputs at the steering wheel. This ratio can be 
thought of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one 
degree of turn on the steering box output shaft. For example, a 12:1 
steering ratio will require 12° of steering input to rotate the steering 
output shaft 1° . A steering box with a lower ratio will feel more 
responsive to steering inputs and will require less steering input to 
reach the amount needed to navigate a corner. A steering box with 
a higher ratio will feel less responsive and will require more steering 
input to reach the amount needed to navigate a corner.
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved with a combination of 
installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism
off-center and adjusting front tie-rods. This can be used to 
compensate for chassis settings which place the wheel off 
center and is primarily a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent
to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more
force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for
a given situation.
TAPE CONFIGURATION
Two options for grille tape are available: Race and Qual. The 
Race configuration will open up the radiator opening on the front 
fascia to allow air into the radiator and keep the engine at safe 
operating temperatures for race sessions or long runs in practice.
For Qualifying, where performance is key, the Qual setting will fully 
block the radiator opening in the front fascia. This will dramatically 
reduce drag and increase downforce, but will cause the engine 
to overheat very quickly and possibly fail. The Qual setting is not 
available in Race sessions.

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT ARB
DIAMETER
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) diameter influences the stiffness of the 
front suspension in roll. Increasing the ARB size will increase the 
roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll 
and improved aerodynamic stability but increasing mechanical 
understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive 
steering feel for the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB size will 
soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll and reducing 
aerodynamic efficiency but decreasing mechanical understeer.
This can result in a less-responsive feel from the steering. ARB 
diameter can be used as a fine tuning adjustment for dynamic 
wheel rate, and to control roll angle for optimal ride heights and 
aerodynamic performance.
ARM ASYMMETRY
The difference in length between the left and right sway bar arms 
can be altered via the Arm Asymmetry settings. The “None” setting 
will set the two arms at equal length, while increasing the setting will 
increase the difference in length of the two arms. This can be used 
to produce multiple effects, primarily serving to produce a higher 
anti-roll force on the right-front suspension than on the left-front, 
effectively rolling the chassis to the left when under load. This 
can be used to correct excessive roll without increasing the ARB 
diameter. A knock-on effect of asymmetry is a slight increase in front 
end heave stiffness, or resistance to vertical travel. Since the two 
different lengths of arms cause the bar to be twisted at different 
rates, vertical travel will load the ARB, possibly leading to higher 
front ride heights on straights.
LINK SLACK
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay bar 
engagement or apply a static load to the bar. The linkage itself is 
a slider-type linkage, and any positive link slack will require the
left-front wheel to travel prior to the ARB experiencing any load.
This adjustment directly affects the bar’s Preload, outlined below.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in 
the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the dynamic 
loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add 
bar load in the corners and on the straights.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension 
adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link slack 
and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; 
attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done. If the ARB 
is attached with any preload while making adjustments, this will 
influence all other adjustments and quickly lead to improperly 
adjusting the chassis in compensation for the preload.

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight distribution on each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via the 
spring perch offset setting. Once ride heights and corner weights are 
set, any change to a spring rate will typically require a corresponding 
spring perch offset adjustment to maintain static corner weight.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis.
Front heights are measured at the bottom of the chassis frame 
rail just behind the wheel well and can be roughly identified via 
the skirt rivets at the bottom of the door. Since these values are 
measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values 
may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but 
instead provide a reliable value for the height of the car off of 
the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s 
aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. 
Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under static 
conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, 
adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that 
corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and 
weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the 
car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SHOCK SPRING RATE
The shock spring is a small metallic coil spring mounted on the shock 
body that keeps the shock from bottoming. If a car’s suspension 
compresses into the shock spring while on track, the stiffness of 
the shock spring will affect the handling in the same way the regular 
corner spring rates do.
PACKERS
Packers are shims inserted between the shock springs and shock 
body to change the amount of shock deflection at which the shock 
spring is engaged in compression. This allows fine control over 
dynamic ride heights which can improve the aerodynamic downforce 
and alter the mechanical balance.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements 
as a result of driver input, such as the front shocks under braking. 
Higher LS Compression settings will prevent the shock from 
compressing quickly and can quickly increase the load transferred to 
the wheel when the suspension is in compression, but can prevent 
the suspension from absorbing smaller bumps and dips in the track. 
Lower LS compression settings will allow for better bump absorption, 
but can hurt aerodynamic stability due to excessive body movement 
with driver inputs.

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMPRESSION
The High-Speed (HS) Compression controls how resistant the shock 
is to compression at higher shock shaft speeds, roughly 1.5 in/s. 
This range of motion is usually associated with very bumpy racing 
surfaces or curb strikes, such as seen on road courses. Lower HS 
Compression values will reduce the force exerted in these situations, 
allowing these large forces to be absorbed by the suspension 
without changing the low-speed characteristics of the shock. This is 
great for very bumpy tracks or road courses where the car will see 
heavy curb usage, while smoother tracks will benefit from higher HS 
Compression values.
HS COMP SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the high- and 
low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as 
a result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking. 
Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values 
will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can 
better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of 
the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options 
for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce a 
more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing steadily 
with velocity. These values will give a more controlled damping 
characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values will 
result in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for 
smoother surfaces.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of 
the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is closer 
to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive 
camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the bottom. 
Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated 
by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire 
will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very 
high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so 
it is important to find a balance between life and performance. For 
ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road 
courses, all four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward 
(negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel 
but decreases dynamic crossweight while turning, as well as adding 
straight-line stability. Running less caster on the left-front will cause 
the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. On the front, 
negative toe-in is generally preferred. More negative toe-in typically 
provides better turn in response and makes the car less stable in a 
straight line, but can increase tire temperature and wear.

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the 
garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel 
weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis.
Since these values are measured to a specific reference point
on the car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s
ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the 
height of the car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting 
Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they can directly 
influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as 
mechanical grip. Increasing rear ride height will increase rear 
downforce as well as slightly increasing overall downforce and 
drag. Conversely, reducing rear ride height will reduce rear and 
overall downforce and reduce drag.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this setting 
applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. Decreasing 
the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its 
corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. Increasing the 
value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given 
corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and right, for example) 
or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to prevent 
crossweight changes while adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force 
per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining ride 
height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer 
springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or pitch change) 
which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical 
grip is often better with softer springs which allow for more track 
surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control. For ovals, a 
softer left-rear spring (relative to the right-rear) is desired to prevent 
the dynamic cross from being too high in the corners, which will 
result in a balance shift towards understeer through a run.
TRAVEL TO COIL BIND
On ovals over 1.0 mile (excluding Gateway), the right rear spring 
can be coil bound to control rear heights for aerodynamic platform 
stability. If the installed right-rear spring rate is under 400lb/in the 
Travel to Coil Bind value will dictate how far the spring will compress 
(from its length at tech height, not necessarily the garage height) 
before it begins binding. Right-rear coil bind is most useful to 
maintain lower rear heights on the straights to reduce drag while 
maintaining a stable attitude in cornering for downforce. Smaller 
values will bind the spring sooner through rear travel while larger 
values will delay binding until lower rear ride heights.
LS COMPRESSION
Low-Speed (LS) Compression affects how resistant the shock is to 
compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as 
a result of driver input, such as the rear shocks under acceleration 
or when leaving a banked corner. Higher LS Compression settings 
will prevent the shock from compressing quickly and can quickly 
increase the load transferred to the wheel when the suspension is in 
compression, but can prevent the suspension from absorbing smaller 
bumps and dips in the track. Lower LS compression settings will 
allow for better bump absorption, but can hurt aerodynamic stability 
due to excessive body movement with driver inputs.

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
HS COMPRESSION
The High-Speed (HS) Compression controls how resistant the shock 
is to compression at higher shock shaft speeds, roughly 1.5 in/s. 
This range of motion is usually associated with very bumpy racing 
surfaces or curb strikes, such as seen on road courses. Lower HS 
Compression values will reduce the force exerted in these situations, 
allowing these large forces to be absorbed by the suspension 
without changing the low-speed characteristics of the shock. This is 
great for very bumpy tracks or road courses where the car will see 
heavy curb usage, while smoother tracks will benefit from higher HS 
Compression values.
HS COMP SLOPE
The High-Speed Compression can be further tuned with the 
Compression Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed 
adjustment of the shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range 
of options for various track conditions. Higher slope settings will 
produce a more linear compression setting, with compression force 
increasing with velocity. These settings are good for very bumpy 
surfaces to keep the shock from “blowing out” over large bumps, 
preventing the chassis from striking the racing surface. Lower slope 
settings will produce a more digressive compression setting, with 
forces not increasing significantly as velocity increases. This is 
good for smoother tracks where large suspension movement is not 
expected. When tuning shocks for a track, change the slope setting 
first to suit the track, then fine-tune the shock using the high- and 
low-speed settings.
LS REBOUND
Low-Speed (LS) Rebound affects how resistant the shock is to 
extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as
a result of driver inputs, such as the rear shocks under braking.
Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values 
will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher rebound values can 
better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being 
unloaded when the suspension can’t extend enough to maintain 
proper contact with the track. Excessive front rebound can lead to 
unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track 
surface instead of staying in contact.
HS REBOUND SLOPE
The High-Speed Rebound can be further tuned with the Rebound 
Slope setting. This setting shifts the high-speed adjustment of the 
shocks higher or lower, allowing for a wider range of options for 
various track conditions. Higher slope settings will produce
a more linear rebound setting, with rebound force increasing
steadily with velocity. These values will give a more controlled 
damping characteristic over very bumpy surfaces. Lower values 
will result in a more digressive rebound curve, which is good for 
smoother surfaces.
CAMBER
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is farther 
away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. At the rear, 
toe-out will help with turn in and direction changes, while toe-in 
will increase straight-line stability. For short tracks or tracks where 
traction is a problem, setting both rear wheels toed to the left 
(positive right-rear and negative left-rear) can help to straighten 
the car on throttle application.
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to 
the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front of 
the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and 
negative toe-in (toe-out) is the opposite. On the rear end, adding 
toe-in will increase straight-line stability but may hurt how well 
the car changes direction. The left and right toe can be adjusted 
independently, which can be useful for slight adjustments of the 
vehicle’s yaw attitude on ovals.
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The rear axle is held in place laterally via a Track Bar, mounted to 
the left side of the rear axle housing and to the chassis frame on
the right side. Overall height of the track bar dictates roll center 
location for the rear suspension and thus affects roll stiffness,
with a higher track bar increasing rear roll stiffness and shifting the 
chassis balance to oversteer. Lower track bar settings will increase 
lateral traction due to a reduction in roll stiffness and roll center 
height. The track bar end heights can also be set to different values,
known as “rake” or “split”. A positive track bar rake, with the
right-side mounted higher, will increase oversteer on corner exit, 
as well as adding skew through vertical travel. Negative track bar 
rake will increase traction on corner exit, but will remove skew 
through vertical travel.

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
REAR
TRUCK ARM MOUNT
The rear axle is held in place longitudinally with two truck arms, 
mounted to the bottom of the chassis underneath the driver 
compartment. The forward mounts can be adjusted up and down, 
resulting in various anti-squat and rear-steer configurations.
Higher truck arm mounts will reduce rear end grip, increase rear 
steer, add anti-squat, and reduce wheel hop under heavy braking. 
Lower truck arm mounts will increase rear end bite, decrease rear 
steer, reduce anti-squat, and increase the chances of wheel hop 
under heavy braking.
On the right-rear corner, the Truck Arm Mount can be used to raise 
or lower rear ride heights when the right-rear spring is binding.
If the allowable range from the “Travel to Coil Bind” setting results 
in heights that are too low, raising the right-rear Truck Arm Mount 
will raise the rear ride height when the spring is bound. Conversely, 
lowering the Truck Arm mount will result in lower dynamic rear 
heights when the spring is binding.
TRUCK ARM PRELOAD
Due to the truck arm mounting design on the rear axle, most chassis 
adjustments will result in the truck arms applying a torque to the 
rear axle housing. This preload has an extremely small effect on 
the chassis balance, but can be removed to eliminate any potential 
issues. It is good practice to reset this value to as close to zero as 
possible after making adjustments.
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion 
and the differential ring gear. For all ovals with NASCAR-sanctioned 
events, this value is either locked to one ratio or there is a choice of 
two ratios. Higher number values produce better acceleration but 
reduce top speed, lower number values reduce acceleration but 
result in a higher top speed.

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
SETUP TIPS
This section is aimed toward helping users who want to dive deeper 
into the different aspects of the vehicle’s setup.
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | SETUP TIPS 

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | SETUP TIPS 
SETUP TIPS
SPLITTER HEIGHT & FRONT SPRINGS
RIDE HEIGHTS & ATTITUDE
The NASCAR O’Reilly cars provide a step up in difficulty from 
the Truck Series with less downforce and slightly more engine 
performance, putting a larger emphasis on driver skill and 
mechanical grip. As with other oval cars, the setup process is based 
on ride height targets and weight distribution and can be very simple 
with practice. With relatively low aerodynamic performance when 
compared against other NASCAR series, the O’Reilly car will often 
require a stiffer setup to maintain the ideal aerodynamic attitude 
on the track.
The optimum splitter height, and minimum ideal height, is around 
0.25” or just above 6mm, measured via the telemetry channel 
CFSRrideheight. This height sensor is placed on the leading edge of 
the splitter along the centerline and displays the ground clearance to 
the front of the car. As this height is reduced, overall downforce will 
increase and aero balance will shift forward slightly. If the splitter is 
allowed to pass below the minimum height of 0.25”, an aerodynamic 
stall will occur and overall downforce will drop significantly. Further, 
a risk of ground contact from the splitter will occur, unloading the 
front tires and inducing heavy understeer.
Tuning the splitter height is relatively a relatively simple process and 
can be done in three steps:
Shock Spring Rate selection
Packer setting
Anti-Roll Bar / Crossweight settings
Shock Spring rates are going to come down to personal preference 
and track characteristics. Tracks with high loads or very smooth 
surfaces can use very stiff spring rates (7000 lb/in or more), while 
rougher tracks or tracks with lower cornering speeds may see better 
performance with slightly softer spring rates. Further, some drivers 
may prefer one spring stiffer than the other or both the same rate, 
but this will come down to testing configurations and finding which 
you like the best.
Packers are shims placed on top of the Shock Spring that reduce 
the amount of travel needed for the shock body to contact the 
Shock Spring, and thus engage the shock spring as the acting 
suspension rate. Adding packers will engage the spring sooner 
and raise the dynamic front heights, removing packers will delay 
To complicate matters the low downforce also means mechanical 
grip can play a key role as well, sometimes leading to a compromise 
between aerodynamics and mechanical grip. Generally the O’Reilly 
car will not have enough grip to run without at least some braking 
and coasting through the center of a corner, and corner exits are 
usually an exercise in throttle control and how well a driver can keep 
the car on the limit.
spring engagement and reduce the dynamic front ride height. Due 
to differences in corner suspension loads and motion ratios, the 
amount of Packers needed to achieve the desired heights may 
differ between each front corner. 
For any car with shock springs the front Anti-Roll Bar is a key part for 
timing shock spring engagement and managing shock spring loads 
in the front suspension. If the bar is too weak it can result in too 
much roll and disengagement of the Left-Front shock spring, while 
if the bar is too stiff it may prevent the suspension from engaging 
the Right-Front shock spring. 
On ovals, where ride heights are often different from left to right, 
vertical travel will load the Anti-Roll bar and introduce a vertical 
spring rate to the front suspension. This can cause the front end to 
“pop” up on corner exit, reducing overall downforce and shifting aero 
aggressively forward in severe cases. This can be corrected by using 
a positive Link Slack value, allowing the suspension to drop from the 
mandated Ride Heights without loading the Anti-Roll Bar.
In many cases, a combination of Packers and Anti-Roll Bar settings 
can lead to counter-intuitive behavior from the front suspension and 
should be avoided if possible. Specifically, trying to remove chassis 
roll by adding packer to the lower side of the car will often result 
in raising the opposite side of the car due to how the Anti-Roll bar 
works. For example, adding packers to the right-front suspension will 
begin loading the Anti-Roll bar sooner and prevent the suspension 
from dropping down to the Left-Front Shock Spring, resulting in 
a higher overall front ride height. Many try to fix this by removing 
Left-Front Packer, further increasing bar load and making this issue 
worse. As a general rule, keep the packer values relatively close to 
each other and use the Anti-Roll Bar or Left-Rear spring stiffness to 
control front-end chassis roll.
As with all oval cars, the setup process involves hitting 
predetermined height targets in the corners and finding a way 
to keep the chassis and body in that position as long and as 
consistently as possible.
Your targets for chassis setup will be a minimum splitter height 
and a rear height range.

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | SETUP TIPS 
REAR RIDE HEIGHTS & REAR SPRINGS
RIGHT-REAR COIL BINDING
Rear ride heights are best run in a range of heights for most 
situations. The Xfinity car will see maximum downforce between 4.5” 
and 5.0” (114-127mm) for rear ride height. Running the rear higher 
than this range will add very little downforce but a lot of drag and is 
not recommended. Running lower than this range can reduce drag 
and downforce for tracks with the highest top speeds but can risk 
damaging the underside of the car.
The O’Reilly Car has an option to “bind” the right-rear spring for 
large tracks. This option will take a very soft spring and travel until 
the spring is bound, or touching the spring coils, to prevent further 
suspension travel. To enable this, you must be at a track larger than 
1.0 miles (except Gateway and Superspeedways) and the right-rear 
spring needs to be set below 400lb/in.
Once the spring rate is selected, reset the ride heights to what they 
were initially. Then choose a value in the “Travel to Coil Bind” option. 
This value is the amount of travel the spring must go through before 
it binds, referenced from the spring’s length at Tech Heights, or 
about 8” rear ride height. (Since this reference is often higher than 
the actual ride height, the travel is not exactly what is selected!!) 
Higher travel values will allow the spring to travel further, resulting 
in lower rear dynamic heights in the corners, while smaller travel 
values will bind sooner and result in higher dynamic corner heights. 
When this option is enabled, the Ride Height setting itself is not as 
important, or can be completely unimportant, when tuning on-track 
heights and this travel value will be the main consideration.
Choosing rear spring rates is much simpler than choosing front 
spring rates, as each of the rear springs has its own specific 
purpose. The simplest way to approach rear springs is to set the 
Right-Rear spring for the target rear height and adjust the Left-Rear 
spring for handling and roll, with the Right-Rear spring generally 
being a few times stiffer than the Left-Rear. Generally you will 
want the stiffest Right-Rear spring spring you can handle and then 
fine-tune the dynamic height with the Perches. For the Left-Rear, 
softening the spring will roll the car to the left and free the chassis 
up through the corner while stiffening the spring will raise the left 
side of the chassis and tighten the car through the corner.
Sometimes the loads for a track may be too high or too low to reach 
the desired ride heights with the allowed values in the Travel to Coil 
Bind setting. If you need to raise or lower the rear of the car because 
of this, the adjustment to correct the heights is the Truck Arm Mount 
setting. Since the rear springs are mounted directly to the Truck 
Arms, this setting raises or lowers the spring itself and will alter the 
dynamic rear heights accordingly. To make this change, move the 
Truck Arm Mount to a new setting and reset the ride height with the 
Spring Perch Offset, and then run a few laps to see where the Travel 
to Coil Bind setting needs to be moved to.
ADJUSTING FOR WEATHER AND TIME-OF-DA Y
Varying weather conditions and race start times can greatly affect 
the amount of grip available from the track surface. Hotter track 
temperatures will produce less grip and often cause the car to 
oversteer, especially on throttle, while cooler tracks will increase grip 
and shift the balance towards understeer.
To correct for weather and track temperature changes, the only 
adjustment needed is crossweight: Increase crossweight for warmer 
temperatures, decrease it for cooler temperatures.

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | USER MANUAL
NASCAR O’REILLY CARS | SETUP TIPS 
CROSSWEIGHT
One of the most important settings in the garage is the crossweight, 
or the percentage of the chassis’ total weight on the Right-Front 
and Left Rear as a percentage. This value is a major factor in the 
mechanical handling balance and how the car will get into and out
of the corner. 
To adjust crossweight without introducing other issues, 
follow these steps:
Note the current Front ARB Preload and disconnect the bar. Once 
disconnected, increase the Link Slack option to a large positive 
value, which will prevent the bar from influencing other adjustments 
while disconnected.
If the bar has a large amount of preload this may cause the ride 
heights to move into illegal ranges. This is okay, as they should 
return to legal ranges when the bar is reattached and loaded.
Using the Spring Perch Offsets, adjust the crossweight by making 
the following changes:
Increase Crossweight
Right Rear - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
Left Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
Left Front - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
Right Front - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
Decrease Crossweight
Right Rear - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
Left Rear - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
Left Front - Left Click (Decrease value, increase corner weight)
Right Front - Right Click (Increase value, decrease corner weight)
If you’re new to the setup process, keep these adjustments to one
or two clicks at a time and watch what happens to the chassis.
If you’re comfortable with the adjustments, multiple clicks
(Shift-Click is equal to 5 clicks) can be made as long as you keep 
track of everything that’s changing. Always pay attention to the 
ARB preload to make sure it stays at zero during crossweight 
adjustments. If it registers a value, simply adjust the Link Slack to 
remove the preload and continue with weight adjustments.
Once the desired crossweight change has been made, reattach 
the ARB and preload the bar to what it was initially. Following these 
steps you should now have a change in crossweight with almost no 
change in ride heights or alignment!
Deciding on a crossweight adjustment is usually fairly simple, it will 
come down to how the car is behaving through the center and on 
throttle application. If the car understeers through the center or 
has too much rear traction on throttle causing understeer on exit, 
decrease the crossweight. If the car oversteers through the center 
or the rear tires spin too easily on initial throttle, increase 
the crossweight.
It is also very important to focus on crossweight adjustments 
progressively through the corner: Start with entry and work on 
the car around the corner. It’s very easy to fall into the trap where 
the rear of the car loses grip on exit and the driver wants more 
crossweight to correct that, when the root cause is understeer 
through the center of the corner. This understeer will result in the 
driver applying too much steering input and over-slipping the front 
tires, which “bite” as steering is removed through corner exit and 
causing the rear to lose traction. In this situation, adding crossweight 
will make the center of the corner worse and potentially make the 
car “looser” on exit. This pitfall can be avoided by looking at the tire 
temperatures screen (after a steady run without spins) and noting 
whether the temperatures show hotter on the RF than the RR tire, an 
indication that the car is understeering and the crossweight needs to 
be reduced. This will often, counter-intuitively, tighten the car on exit 
and free the car up through the center.
FINAL CONSIDERATIONS
Once these areas of the setup are complete you can move onto finer 
details like shocks and alignments. These settings will be dependent 
on the spring package and track characteristics, so don’t be afraid to 
test various settings to see what works for you.
The Fixed setups provided with the car are close to where the 
car would like to be run as far as heights and weight balance, but 
are tuned more towards mild understeer to make the car more 
approachable. Keep it simple, make small adjustments, and you 
should be able to get wherever you want to go!