--- PAGE 1 ---

1
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6
FORD MUSTANG
TOYOTA CAMRY
CHEVROLET CAMARO ZL 1
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Dash Page 2 » 8
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Dash Page 3 » 9
 Dash Page 1 » 7
Tires » 10 
 Front ARB » 14
Chassis » 12
 Rear Corners » 17
 Tire Settings » 10
 Front Corners » 15 
 Front End » 12
 Rear End » 20
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
Table of Contents
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the NASCAR Cup Series Gen 6 Car! From all of us at iRacing, we 
appreciate your support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing 
experience, and we hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
The Generation 6 Sprint Cup Car embodies NASCAR’s “Win on Sunday, Sell on Monday” heritage. The 
latest entries into the NASCAR Cup Series include the Ford Mustang, Toyota Camry, and Chevrolet Camaro 
ZL1. With 750 horsepower on tap and a minimum weight of 3200 pounds (with no less than 1600 pounds 
on the right side), close racing is sure to take place at high speeds, so safety is an important consideration 
as well. Thus the Gen6 cars incorporate forward roof band and center roof support reinforcing structural 
integrity, along with large roof flaps to reduce the likelihood of cars becoming airborne in crashes. 
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off of 
the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in getting up 
to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
CHASSIS
POWER 
UNIT
DOUBLE 
WISHBONE 
INDEPENDENT 
FRONT, LIVE 
AXLE TRUCK 
ARM REAR
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | TECH SPECS
FABRICATED STEEL TUBE CHASSIS
NATURALLY ASPIRATED STEEL BLOCK PUSHROD V8
LENGTH
4882mm
192.2in
DISPLACEMENT
5.86Liters
358CID
TORQUE
515lb-ft
698Nm
TORQUE
420lb-ft
569Nm
WIDTH
1956mm
77in
RPM LIMIT
9800RPM
 
POWER
750bhp
559kW
POWER
550bhp
410kW
WHEELBASE
2794mm
110in
DRY WEIGHT
1451kg
3200lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1568kg
3456lbs
OVALS UNDER 1 M i. & ROAD COURSES OVALS OVER 1 M i

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
Introduction
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the 
chassis setup adjustments available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune 
the chassis setup to your preference. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become familiar with the car 
and track. T o that end, we have provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced 
by these cars. T o access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing Setups, 
and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which 
a dedicated baseline setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use 
as your baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus on 
making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing line and experiencing tire 
wear and handling trends over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential with the included baseline 
setups, read on to begin tuning the car to your handling preferences.
GETTING STARTED
Once you load into the car, press the clutch and select 1st gear. Give it a bit of throttle and ease off the clutch pedal to get 
underway. This car uses an h-pattern transmission, but only requires the clutch pedal to get the car rolling and when coming 
to a stop in gear. To upshift, simply let off the throttle and select the next higher gear. To downshift, give the throttle a blip while 
selecting the next lower gear. Upshifting is recommended when the red RPM warning light illuminates. If you downshift too early, 
or don’t blip the throttle sufficiently, the wheel speed and engine speed will be mismatched, leading to wheel hop at the rear and a 
possible spin.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any 
of the other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option 
that fits your needs. Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body configurations on different types of tracks, it will 
be necessary to load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. For example, a setup for Talladega will pass at 
Daytona, but likely will not pass at Bristol.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If 
you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver or 
everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
Dash Pages
Three digital dashboards are available in these cars, which can be selected through 
the setup page or through the in-car adjustments black box. Each provides the same 
information, but in a unique format. Dash page 1 provides information in a digital-numerical 
format, dash page 2 provides a digital-analog tachometer with digital-numerical auxiliary 
gauges, and dash page 3 provides a completely analog-style gauge display.
DASH PAGE 1
On the left, engine oil pressure and the cooling water pressure are displayed, on the right engine oil temperature and cooling 
water temperature. Top center displays the most recent lap time and current numerical engine RPM. The second row is fuel 
system pressure and battery voltage. The third row are the pit speed lights, which progressively illuminate in yellow below pit road 
speed, in green approaching pit road speed, with all lights green at pit road speed, and then switch to red when pit road speed is 
exceeded. The 4th row is a graphical RPM display. Each of the numerical displays illuminates in red when potentially dangerous 
values are reported.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
DASH PAGE 2
On the left is the previously-completed lap time, engine oil pressure, fuel system pressure, and battery voltage; on the right is 
cooling water temperature, engine oil temperature, and cooling water pressure. In the center is an analog tachometer displaying 
engine RPM, which illuminates red when the RPM limit is approached. Similarly to dash page 1, pit road speed lights will appear in 
the RPM region of the pit road speed limit, which progressively illuminate in yellow below pit road speed, in green approaching pit 
road speed, with all lights green at pit road speed, and then switch to red when pit road speed is exceeded. Each of the numerical 
displays illuminates in red when potentially dangerous values are reported.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
DASH PAGE 3
On this page, all gauges are represented in a digital-analog format, which each illuminate red when potentially dangerous 
values are reported. On the left from top to bottom are cooling water temperature, fuel system pressure, and cooling water 
pressure. On the right from top to bottom are engine oil temperature, battery voltage, and engine oil pressure. In the center is 
the tachometer, and at bottom left the most recent lap time is reported digitally-numerically. Similarly to dash pages 1 and 2, pit 
road speed lights will appear in the RPM region of the pit road speed limit, which progressively illuminate in yellow below pit road 
speed, in green approaching pit road speed, with all lights green at pit road speed, and then switch to red when pit road speed is 
exceeded. 
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
Tires
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR TIRES)
COLD PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads will 
require higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should 
be set to track characteristics for optimum performance. For typical road courses or for oval left side tires, lower tire pressures 
are recommended. For oval right side tires, the greater loads experienced by the tires require higher starting pressures.
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects 
of the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to 
significant changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in 
an incremental fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
LAST HOT PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The difference between Cold and Hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between 
Cold and Hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a 
change in handling balance over the life of the tire, so Cold pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar 
pressures once up to operating temperature. On ovals, the right front and right rear would be similar, and the left front and left 
rear would be similar. On road courses, the left front and right front would be similar, and the left rear and right rear would be 
similar.
LAST TEMPS
Tire carcass temperatures are measured once the car has returned from the pits and displayed in three zones across the tread 
surface. Wheel Loads and the amount of work a tire is doing on-track is reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can 
be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, 
while the Inner and Outer temperatures are useful for analyzing the wheel alignment while on track. These values are measured 
in three zones across the tread of the tire. For ovals, the left sides of the tires should typically be the most heavily loaded and 
hottest, so the outsides of the left side tires and insides of right side tires. For road courses, the insides of each tire should carry 
the greatest loads and temperatures.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned from the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying 
any possible issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire 
temperatures to analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in three zones across the tread of the tire.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
Chassis
FRONT END
BALLAST FORWARD
To meet minimum weight requirements, tungsten blocks are installed within the lower frame rails on the chassis. These blocks 
can be moved fore and aft in the chassis, directly influencing the car’s Nose Weight value. The Ballast Forward value is simply a 
measurement of the location of these tungsten blocks relative to a reference point in the frame rail. Moving ballast forward in the 
car raises Nose Weight, moving it rearward reduces Nose Weight.
NOSE WEIGHT
The vehicle’s Nose Weight is the percentage of total vehicle weight on the front tires, directly adjustable through the Ballast 
Forward adjustment. Nose Weight represents the longitudinal Center of Gravity location in the vehicle and has a direct influence 
on the high-speed stability of the vehicle. Higher Nose Weight values result in a more directionally-stable vehicle, good for low-grip 
tracks and situations where the vehicle is set up with extra front downforce. Conversely, lower Nose Weight values are good for 
high-grip tracks and configurations with high rear downforce levels. Smaller tracks will also see benefits from lower Nose Weight 
values, as it will allow the rear of the vehicle to rotate easier. 
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
CROSS WEIGHT
Cross weight is the amount of weight on the car’s Left-Rear and Right-Front tires relative to the entire weight of the car, displayed 
in percent. This is adjusted via the corner Spring Perch Offset adjustments as well as Front ARB preload and, to a very small 
extent, the Truck Arm Preload. For an oval car, Cross Weight is one of the most influential settings for grip level while the vehicle 
is in a turn. Higher Cross Weight values will add weight to the left-rear and right-front, both stabilizing entry and helping drive-off 
on corner exit. Lower Cross Weight values will help the vehicle rotate and keep it “free” in the corner to prevent speed from being 
lost, however too low can result in unstable entry and exit.
STEERING RATIO
The Steering Ratio is a numerical value for how fast the steering response is in the vehicle’s steering box. This ratio can be 
thought of as the degrees of steering input needed to produce one degree of turn on the steering box output shaft. For example, 
a 12:1 steering ratio will require 12° of steering input to rotate the steering output shaft 1°. A steering box with a lower ratio 
will feel more responsive to steering inputs and will require less steering input to reach the amount needed to navigate a corner. 
A steering box with a higher ratio will feel less responsive and will require more steering input to reach the amount needed to 
navigate a corner. 
STEERING OFFSET
Degrees of steering wheel offset, achieved by installing the steering wheel into the quick release mechanism off-center. This can be 
used to compensate for chassis settings which place the wheel off center and is primarily a driver comfort adjustment.
FRONT BRAKE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in more pressure 
being sent to the front, while values less than 50% send more force to the rear. This should be tuned for both driver preference 
and track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation.
TAPE CONFIGURATION
Percentage of grill opening blocked off by tape. Increasing the percentage reduces aerodynamic drag and increases downforce 
while shifting the downforce balance forward, but reduces air flow to the cooling system and increases engine heat. Decreasing 
percentage increases cooling but also increases drag and reduces downforce. Too much tape may risk engine damage over more 
than a short number of laps.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
FRONT ARB
DIAMETER 
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) diameter influences the stiffness of the front suspension in roll, such as when navigating a corner. 
Increasing the ARB size will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical 
understeer. This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel for the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB 
size will soften the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a less-
responsive feel from the steering, but grip across the front axle will increase. Given the low ride heights and high rates typical of 
this car’s springs and shock springs, ARB diameter can be considered primarily a fine tuning adjustment for front roll stiffness to 
reduce or increase understeer, and to control roll angle for optimal ride heights and aerodynamic performance. 
ARM ASYMMETRY 
The difference in length between the left and right sway bar arms can be altered via the Arm Asymmetry settings. The “None” 
setting will set the two arms at equal length, while increasing the setting will increase the difference in length of the two arms. 
This can be used to produce multiple effects, primarily serving to produce a higher anti-roll force on the right-front suspension 
than on the left-front, effectively rolling the chassis to the left when under load. This can be used to correct excessive roll without 
increasing the ARB diameter. A knock-on effect of asymmetry is a slight increase in front end heave stiffness, or resistance to 
vertical travel. Since the two different lengths of arms cause the bar to be twisted at different rates, vertical travel will load the 
ARB, possibly leading to higher front ride heights on straights. 
LINK SLACK
The left-side sway bar linkage can be adjusted to either delay bar engagement or apply a static load to the bar. The linkage itself 
is a slider-type linkage, and any positive link slack will require the left-front wheel to travel prior to the ARB experiencing any load. 
This adjustment directly affects the bar’s Preload, outlined below.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in the garage. Preload adjustments can be used to alter the 
dynamic loads in the bar while on track, and can be used to remove or add bar load in the corners and on the straights, directly 
iinfluencing static and dynamic cross weight.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase 
link slack and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when 
done. If the ARB is attached with any preload while making adjustments, this will influence all other adjustments and quickly lead to 
improperly adjusting the chassis to compensate for the preload.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight distribution on each tire under static conditions in the garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial 
for optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel weight adjustments and cross weight adjustments are made 
via the spring perch offset setting. Once ride heights and corner weights are set, any change to a spring rate will typically require 
a corresponding spring perch offset adjustment to maintain static corner weight.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Front heights are measured at the bottom of the chassis frame 
rail just behind the wheel well and can be roughly identified via the skirt rivets at the bottom of the door. Since these values are 
measured to a specific reference point on the car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but 
instead provide a reliable value for the height of the car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for 
optimum performance, as they can directly influence the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. 
SHOCK DEFLECTION:
Shock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from its fully extended length while under static conditions in the garage. 
This is useful for determining how much shock travel is available before the shock springs and packers are engaged on the shock 
body.
SPRING DEFLECTION
Spring Deflection is how much the primary ride spring has compressed from its fully extended length while under static conditions 
in the garage. On the front corners, coil binding is not possible.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET:
Spring perch offset is used to adjust ride height and corner weight. Adjusting this setting changes the preload on the spring under 
static conditions. Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height 
at that corner. Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted 
in pairs (left and right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight changes while 
adjusting ride height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining 
ride height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or 
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
pitch change) which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical grip is often better with softer springs which 
allow for more track surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control.
SHOCK SPRING RATE
The shock spring is a small metallic coil spring mounted on the shock body that keeps the shock from bottoming. If a car’s 
suspension compresses into the shock spring while on track, the stiffness of the shock spring will affect the handling in the same 
way the regular corner spring rates do.
PACKERS
Packers are shims inserted between the shock springs and shock body to change the amount of shock deflection at which the 
shock spring is engaged in compression. This allows fine control over dynamic ride heights which can improve the aerodynamic 
downforce and alter the mechanical balance.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer 
load onto a given tire more quickly. Lower values reduce compression resistance and transfer load onto a given tire more slowly. 
Differences between left and right bump stiffness influence dynamic crossweight on corner entry and result in a dynamic shift in 
balance while the shocks are being compressed, with greater right front bump shifting the balance toward understeer. 
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a result 
of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher 
rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
extend enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, higher front rebound can increase on-throttle 
mechanical understeer (but reduce splitter lift, maintaining downforce) while lower values will maintain front end grip longer, 
helping to reduce mechanical understeer, but will allow more splitter lift and reduce downforce. Differences between left and right 
front rebound influence dynamic cross on corner exit, with greater right front rebound shifting the balance toward oversteer, 
mostly on corner exit. Excessive front rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due to the wheel bouncing off of the track surface 
instead of staying in contact.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Greater camber angles will increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal 
grip the tire will have under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly 
reduce tire life, and extreme values of camber can even reduce grip by critically reducing the contact patch so it is important to 
find a balance between life and performance. For ovals, set the left side positive and the right side negative. For road courses, all 
four wheels should be set with negative camber.
CASTER
How much the steering axis is leaned back (positive) or forward (negative), which influences dynamic load jacking effects as the 
car is steered. More positive caster results in a heavier steering feel but decreases dynamic cross weight while turning, as well as 
adding straight-line stability, and also increases camber gained through steering. Running less caster on the left-front will cause 
the vehicle to pull to the left, a desirable effect on ovals.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
TOE-IN:
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front 
of the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and negative toe-in (toe-out) is when the front of the wheel is 
farther away from the centerline than the rear of the wheel. On the front, negative toe-in is generally preferred. More negative 
toe-in typically provides better turn in response and makes the car less stable in a straight line, but can increase tire temperature 
and wear. 
REAR CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the Spring Perch Offset setting.
RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of 
the car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence 
the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing rear ride height will increase front downforce as well 
as slightly increasing overall downforce and drag. Conversely, reducing rear ride height will reduce front and overall downforce 
and reduce drag.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
SHOCK DEFLECTION
Shock Deflection is how much the shock has compressed from its fully extended length while under static conditions in the garage. 
SPRING DEFLECTION
Spring Deflection is how much the spring has compressed from its fully extended length while under static conditions in the 
garage. Spring deflection is important to identify how much spring travel is available before the spring is coil bound on the right 
rear if enabled.
TRAVEL TO COIL BIND
On ovals, the right rear spring can be coil bound to better corner height control for aerodynamic platform stability. If the installed 
right-rear spring rate is under 400lb/in the Travel to Coil Bind value will dictate how far the spring will compress (from its length 
at tech height, not necessarily the garage height) before it begins binding. Right-rear coil bind is most useful to maintain lower rear 
heights on the straights to reduce drag while maintaining a stable attitude in cornering for downforce. Smaller values will bind the 
spring sooner through rear travel while larger values will delay binding until lower rear ride heights.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET:
Used to adjust ride height and corner weight, adjusting this setting applies a preload to the spring under static conditions. 
Decreasing the value increases preload on the spring, adding weight to its corner and increasing the ride height at that corner. 
Increasing the value does the opposite, reducing height and weight on a given corner. These should be adjusted in pairs (left and 
right, for example) or with all four spring preload adjustments in the car to prevent crossweight changes while adjusting ride 
height.
SPRING RATE
Spring Rate changes how stiff the spring is, represented in force per unit of displacement. Primarily responsible for maintaining 
ride height and aerodynamic attitude under changing wheel loads, stiffer springs control the chassis attitude better (less roll or 
pitch change) which is good for aerodynamics and camber control, but mechanical grip is often better with softer springs which 
allow for more track surface compliance but reduce aerodynamic control. For ovals, a softer left-rear spring (relative to the 
right-rear) is desired to prevent the dynamic cross weight from being too high while cornering, which will result in a balance shift 
towards understeer through a run.
BUMP STIFFNESS
Bump stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to compression (reduction in length), usually in chassis movements as a result of 
driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering forces. Higher values will increase compression resistance and transfer 
load onto a given tire more quickly. Lower values reduce compression resistance and transfer load onto a given tire more slowly. 
Differences between left and right bump stiffness influence dynamic crossweight and result in a dynamic shift in balance while 
the shocks are being compressed, particularly on corner exit, with greater right rear bump shifting the dynamic balance toward 
oversteer. 
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
REBOUND STIFFNESS
Rebound stiffness affects how resistant the shock is to extension (increase in length), typically during body movement as a result 
of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will slow extension of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend faster. Higher 
rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being unloaded when the suspension can’t 
extend enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, higher rear rebound can increase off throttle 
mechanical oversteer while lower values will maintain rear end grip longer, helping to reduce mechanical oversteer off throttle, but 
will allow an increase in rear ride height and shift the aero balance forward. Differences between left and right rear rebound can 
influence off throttle dynamic cross weight on corner entry, with greater right rear rebound shifting the dynamic balance toward 
understeer.
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired on all four wheels on road courses, but on 
ovals positive camber is desired on the left sides. Higher camber values will increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but 
will reduce the amount of grip the tire will have on throttle. Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces but 
will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is important to find a balance between life and performance. 
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to the centerline of the chassis. Positive toe-in is when the front 
of the wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and negative toe-in (toe-out) is the opposite. On the rear end, 
adding toe-in will increase straight-line stability but may hurt how well the car changes direction. The left and right toe can be 
adjusted independently, which can be useful for slight adjustments of the vehicle’s yaw attitude on ovals.
TRACK BAR HEIGHT
The rear axle is held in place laterally via a Track Bar, mounted to the left side of the rear axle housing and to the chassis frame on 
the right side. Overall height of the track bar dictates roll center location for the rear suspension and thus affects roll stiffness, 
with a higher track bar increasing rear roll stiffness and shifting the chassis balance to oversteer. Lower track bar settings will 
increase lateral traction due to a reduction in roll stiffness and roll center height. The track bar end heights can also be set to 
different values, known as “rake” or “split”. A positive track bar rake, with the right-side mounted higher, will increase oversteer on 
corner exit, as well as adding skew through vertical travel, which moves the axle laterally to “crab” the car and increase side force 
for cornering stability. Negative track bar rake will increase traction on corner exit, but will remove skew through vertical travel, 
reducing side force.
TRUCK ARM MOUNT
The rear axle is held in place longitudinally with two truck arms, mounted to the bottom of the chassis underneath the driver 
compartment. The forward mounts can be adjusted up and down, resulting in various anti-squat and rear-steer configurations. 
Higher truck arm mounts will reduce rear end grip, increase rear steer, add anti-squat, and reduce wheel hop under heavy braking. 
Lower truck arm mounts will increase rear end bite, decrease rear steer, reduce anti-squat, and increase the chances of wheel 
hop under heavy braking.
TRUCK ARM PRELOAD
Due to the truck arm mounting design on the rear axle, most chassis adjustments will result in the truck arms applying a torque 
to the rear axle housing. This preload has an extremely small effect on the chassis balance, but can be removed to eliminate any 
potential issues. It is good practice to reset this value to as close to zero as possible after making adjustments.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | USER MANUAL
REAR END
REAR END RATIO
The Rear End Gear Ratio is the ratio between the driveshaft pinion and the differential ring gear. For all ovals with NASCAR-
sanctioned events, this value is either locked to one ratio or there is a choice of two ratios. Higher number values produce better 
acceleration but reduce top speed, lower number values reduce acceleration but result in a higher top speed. 
ARB DIAMETER
The Rear Anti-Roll Bar (ARB, or Sway Bar) diameter affects the roll stiffness of the rear suspension. Increasing the diameter of the 
ARB will result in a higher roll stiffness on the rear suspension, increasing oversteer, while reducing the ARB diameter will reduce 
roll stiffness and increase understeer. A rear ARB is only available at Road Courses and has no effect on the chassis on ovals.
PRELOAD
The ARB Preload is the static load in the bar while the vehicle is in the garage. Since a rear ARB is only available at Road Course 
circuits, it is best to keep this value as close to zero as possible when using a rear ARB to prevent asymmetric handling issues. 
When the rear ARB is not in use, this setting has no effect on the chassis.
ATTACH
A quick way to unhook the anti-roll bar to allow for static suspension adjustments without bar twist confusing things; increase link 
slack and unhook the ARB before making spring/ride height adjustments; attach and reduce link slack (ARB preload) when done.
NASCAR CUP SERIES GEN 6 CARS | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS