--- PAGE 1 ---

1
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R
USER MANUAL

--- PAGE 2 ---

2
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
Introduction » 5
Tech Specs » 4
A Message From iRacing » 3
 Getting Started » 5
 Race 2» 9
Dash Pages » 7
 Loading An iRacing Setup » 6
 Quali » 11
 Race 1 » 7
 Lockup Light Clusters » 12
 Tire Settings » 14
 Pit Limiter & Shift Lights » 13
Chassis » 17
 Traction Control Activation » 12
 Aerodynamics » 15
Tires & Aero » 14 
 Front End » 17
 In-Car Dials » 19
 Rear Corners » 22
 Front Corners » 20 
 Rear End » 24
 GENERAL INFORMATION
 ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
Table of Contents
CLICK TO VIEW A SECTION

--- PAGE 3 ---

3
DEAR iRACING USER,
Congratulations on your purchase of the Porsche 911 GT3 R! From all of us at iRacing, we appreciate your 
support and your commitment to our product. We aim to deliver the ultimate sim racing experience, and we 
hope that you’ll find plenty of excitement with us behind the wheel of your new car!
GT3s have proven to be some of the most popular road racing cars in the world in recent years, and 
few brands have quite the road racing pedigree of Porsche. It should stand as no surprise, then, that the 
Porsche 911 GT3 R is both a beloved and successful piece of kit. Immediately successful out of the gate 
thanks to a win in its first attempt at the Bathurst 12 Hour, you can find the 911 GT3 R running at the front 
of the field everywhere from the IMSA WeatherTech SportsCar Championship to the Intercontinental GT 
Challenge. The 4.0-liter flat-six boxer engine produces a whopping 543 horsepower, more than enough to 
propel you to the front of the pack!
The following guide explains how to get the most out of your new car, from how to adjust its settings off of 
the track to what you’ll see inside of the cockpit while driving. We hope that you’ll find it useful in getting up 
to speed.
Thanks again for your purchase, and we’ll see you on the track!

--- PAGE 4 ---

4
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
POWER 
UNIT
CHASSIS
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | TECH SPECS
DOUBLE WISHBONE FRONT SUSPENSION, 
MULTI-LINK REAR SUSPENSION
WATER-COOLED REAR 
MOUNTED FLAT-6 BOXER
LENGTH
4629mm
182.2in
DISPLACEMENT
4.0 Liters
244.14CID
TORQUE
280lb-ft
380Nm
WIDTH
2002mm
78.8in
RPM LIMIT
9450RPM
 
POWER
500bhp
374kW
WHEELBASE
2459mm
96.8in
DRY WEIGHT
1280kg
2822lbs
WET WEIGHT 
WITH DRIVER
1406kg
3100lbs

--- PAGE 5 ---

5
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
Introduction
The information found in this guide is intended to provide a deeper understanding of the 
chassis setup adjustments available in the garage, so that you may use the garage to tune 
the chassis setup to your preference. 
Before diving into chassis adjustments, though, it is best to become familiar with the car 
and track. T o that end, we have provided baseline setups for each track commonly raced 
by these cars. T o access the baseline setups, simply open the Garage, click iRacing Setups, 
and select the appropriate setup for your track of choice. If you are driving a track for which 
a dedicated baseline setup is not included, you may select a setup for a similar track to use 
as your baseline. After you have selected an appropriate setup, get on track and focus on 
making smooth and consistent laps, identifying the proper racing line and experiencing tire 
wear and handling trends over a number of laps. 
Once you are confident that you are nearing your driving potential with the included baseline 
setups, read on to begin tuning the car to your handling preferences.
GETTING STARTED
Before starting the car, it is recommended to map controls for Brake Bias, Traction Control and ABS adjustments. While this is 
not mandatory to drive the car, this will allow you to make quick changes to the driver aid systems to suit your driving style while 
out on the track. 
Once you load into the car, getting started is as easy as selecting the “upshift” button to put it into gear, and hitting the 
accelerator pedal. This car uses a sequential transmission and does not require a clutch input to shift in either direction. However, 
the car’s downshift protection will not allow you to downshift if you are traveling too fast for the gear selected and would incur 
engine damage. If that is the case, the gear change command will simply be ignored. 
Upshifting is recommended at the illumination of the last two yellow shift lights on the dashboard. This is at approximately 9000 
rpm.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 6 ---

6
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
LOADING AN iRACING SETUP
When you first load into a session, the iRacing Baseline setup will be automatically loaded onto the car. If you would like to try any 
of the other iRacing pre-built options, you may select it by going to Garage > iRacing Setups > and then selecting another option 
that fits your needs. Because this car uses slightly different chassis and body configurations on different types of tracks, it will 
be necessary to load a setup from the same track type to pass tech inspection. For example, a setup for Talladega will pass at 
Daytona, but likely will not pass at Bristol.
If you would like to customize the setup, simply make the changes in the garage that you would like to update and click apply. If 
you would like to save your setup for future use click “Save As” on the right to name and save the changes. To access all of your 
personally saved setups, click “My Setups” on the right side of the garage. If you would like to share a setup with another driver or 
everyone in a session, you can select “Share” on the right side of the garage to do so. If a driver is trying to share a setup with you, 
you will find it under “Shared Setups” on the right side of the garage as well.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | INTRODUCTION

--- PAGE 7 ---

7
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
Dash Pages
The digital dash display in this car features three selectable pages (Race 1, Race 2 and 
Qual) as well as numerous light clusters to convey critical information to the driver . Race 1 
and Race 2 are largely identical aside from the upper left cluster; Race 1 uses this cluster 
to display critical engine parameters (oil temperature, oil pressure, water temperature and 
water pressure) while Race 2 uses this space to display relevant fuel calculations (fuel used 
this stint, fuel consumption per lap, fuel pressure and current fuel level). ‘Qual’ forgoes most 
of these detailed parameters and instead displays only lap time, predicted lap time and total 
fuel remaining.
RACE 1
ROW 1 LEFT 
RACE 1 Currently selected dash page
DRY Currently fitted tire
HEADLIGHT ICON Current headlight setting (non-adjustable)
ROW 1 CENTER
NUMBER Currently vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
ROW 1 RIGHT
LAP Current session lap
AC-0 Currently selected A/C map (non-adjustable)
ROW 2 LEFT
OIL TEMP Engine oil temperature (°C or °F)
OIL PRESS Engine oil pressure (bar or psi)
WATER TEMP Engine water temperature (°C or °F)
WATER PRESS Engine water pressure (bar or psi)
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 8 ---

8
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
ROW 2 CENTER
LARGE NUMBER Currently selected gear
ROW 2 RIGHT
LAP TIME Last lap time
TIME DIFF Difference to last lap
PRED LAP Predicted current lap time
ROW 3 LEFT
MAP-# Currently selected engine map
TH-S # Currently selected throttle map
S12-3 ensor backup function position (non-adjustable)
G12-6 Gearbox backup function position (non-adjustable)
ROW 3 CENTER
TYRE PRESS Tire Pressures (left front, right front, left rear, right rear)
ROW 4
MIL Malfunction indicator
ABS-# Currently selected ABS map
TC-C # Currently selected TCC map
TC-R # Currently selected TCR map
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 9 ---

9
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
RACE 2
ROW 1 LEFT 
RACE 2 Currently selected dash page
DRY Currently fitted tire
HEADLIGHT ICON Current headlight setting (non-adjustable)
ROW 1 CENTER
NUMBER Currently vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
ROW 1 RIGHT
LAP Current session lap
AC-0 Currently selected A/C map (non-adjustable)
ROW 2 LEFT
FUEL USED Fuel used (Litres or US gallons)
FUEL PER LAP Fuel used per lap (Litres or US gallons)
FUEL PRESS Fuel pressure (Bar or psi)
FUEL LEVEL Fuel remaining in the tank (Litres or US gallons)
ROW 2 CENTER
LARGE NUMBER Currently selected gear
ROW 2 RIGHT
LAP TIME Last lap time
TIME DIFF Difference to last lap
PRED LAP Predicted current lap time
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 10 ---

10
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
ROW 3 LEFT
MAP-# Currently selected engine map
TH-S # Currently selected throttle map
S12-3 ensor backup function position (non-adjustable)
G12-6 Gearbox backup function position (non-adjustable)
ROW 3 CENTER
TYRE PRESS Tire Pressures (left front, right front, left rear, right rear)
ROW 4
MIL Malfunction indicator
ABS-# Currently selected ABS map
TC-C # Currently selected TCC map
TC-R # Currently selected TCR map
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 11 ---

11
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
QUALI
ROW 1 LEFT 
QUALI Currently selected dash page
DRY Currently fitted tire
HEADLIGHT ICON Current headlight setting (non-adjustable)
ROW 1 CENTER
NUMBER Currently vehicle speed (km/h or mph)
ROW 1 RIGHT
LAP Current session lap
AC-0 Currently selected A/C map (non-adjustable)
ROW 2 LEFT
LAP TIME Current session lap
FUEL LEVEL Fuel remaining in the tank (Litres or US gallons)
ROW 2 CENTER
LARGE NUMBER Currently selected gear
ROW 2 RIGHT
PREDICTED LAP TIME Predicted current lap time
ROW 3 LEFT
MAP-# Currently selected engine map
TH-S # Currently selected throttle map
S12-3 ensor backup function position (non-adjustable)
G12-6 Gearbox backup function position (non-adjustable)
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 12 ---

12
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
ROW 3 CENTER
TYRE PRESS Tire Pressures (left front, right front, left rear, right rear)
ROW 4
MIL Malfunction indicator
ABS-# Currently selected ABS map
TC-C # Currently selected TCC map
TC-R # Currently selected TCR map
LOCKUP LIGHT CLUSTERS
When the front wheels lock, purple LED’s illuminate on two pods located on the instrument binnacle corresponding to the road 
wheel that’s locking (e.g. left side lights in purple indicate a front left lockup). The number of lights indicates the severity of the 
lockup, with one light being a minor lockup and four being severe. This light illumination behaviour is identical for the rear wheels 
with the exception that these are indicated by yellow LED illumination instead of purple.
TRACTION CONTROL ACTIVATION
When traction control is active all lights in the lockup light clusters illuminate in blue along with four lights on the digital display 
illuminating in purple.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 13 ---

13
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
PIT LIMITER 
When the pit limiter is active (and you are under the pit speed limit) a large green box that includes the current road speed will 
display across the top of the dashboard while the left and right lockup light clusters will also illuminate completely in green. Should 
you be above the pit speed limit the green box will switch to orange.
SHIFT LIGHTS
2 GREEN 8400 rpm
4 GREEN 8600 rpm
2 YELLOW 8800 rpm
4 YELLOW 9000 rpm
2 RED 9200 rpm
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | DASH PAGES

--- PAGE 14 ---

14
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
Tires & Aero
TIRE SETTINGS (ALL FOUR TIRES)
COLD AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire when the car is loaded into the world. Higher pressures will reduce rolling drag and heat buildup, but will 
decrease grip. Lower pressures will increase rolling drag and heat buildup, but will increase grip. Higher speeds and loads require 
higher pressures, while lower speeds and loads will see better performance from lower pressures. Cold pressures should be set 
to track characteristics for optimum performance. Generally speaking, it is advisable to start at lower pressures and work your 
way upwards as required.
ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS
This section is aimed toward more advanced users who want to dive deeper into the different aspects 
of the vehicle’s setup. Making adjustments to the following parameters is not required and can lead to 
significant changes in the way a vehicle handles. It is recommended that any adjustments are made in 
an incremental fashion and only singular variables are adjusted before testing changes.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 15 ---

15
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
HOT AIR PRESSURE
Air pressure in the tire after the car has returned to the pits. The difference between cold and hot pressures can be used to 
identify how the car is progressing through a run in terms of balance, with heavier-loaded tires seeing a larger difference between 
cold and hot pressures. Ideally, tires that are worked in a similar way should build pressure at the same rate to prevent a change 
in handling balance over the life of the tire, so cold pressures should be adjusted to ensure that similar tires are at similar 
pressures once up to operating temperature. Hot pressures should be analysed once the tires have stabilised after a period of 
laps. As the number of laps per run will vary depending upon track length a good starting point is approximately 50% of a full fuel 
run. 
TIRE TEMPERATURES
Tire carcass temperatures, measured via Pyrometer, once the car has returned to the pits. Wheel Loads and the amount of work 
a tire is doing on-track are reflected in the tire’s temperature, and these values can be used to analyze the car’s handling balance. 
Center temperatures are useful for directly comparing the work done by each tire, while the Inner and Outer temperatures are 
useful for analyzing the wheel alignment (predominantly camber) while on track. These values are measured in three zones across 
the tread of the tire. Inside, Middle and Outer.
TREAD REMAINING
The amount of tread remaining on the tire once the car has returned to the pits. Tire wear is very helpful in identifying any possible 
issues with alignment, such as one side of the tire wearing excessively, and can be used in conjunction with tire temperatures to 
analyze the car’s handling balance. These values are measured in the same zones as those of temperature.
AERO CALCULATOR
The Aero Calculator is a tool provided to aid in understanding the shift in aerodynamic 
balance associated with adjustment of the rear wing setting and front and rear ride 
heights. It is important to note that the values for front and rear ride height displayed here 
DO NOT result in any mechanical changes to the car itself, however , changes to the rear 
wing angle here WILL be applied to the car . This calculator is a reference tool ONL Y . 
FRONT RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using 
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Front Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LF and RF ride heights as this will provide a more accurate 
representation of the current aero platform rather than using a single corner height. 
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 16 ---

16
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
REAR RH AT SPEED
The Ride Height (RH) at Speed is used to give the Aero Calculator heights to reference for aerodynamic calculations. When using 
the aero calculator, determine the car’s Rear Ride height via telemetry at any point on track and input that value into the “Front 
RH at Speed” setting. It is advisable to use an average value of the LR and RR ride heights as this will provide a more accurate 
representation of the current aero platform rather than using a single corner height. 
WING SETTING
The wing setting refers to the relative angle of attack of the rear wing, this is a powerful aerodynamic device which has a 
significant impact upon the total downforce (and drag!) produced by the car as well as shifting the aerodynamic balance of the car 
rearwards with increasing angle. Increasing the rear wing angle results in more total cornering grip capability in medium to high 
speed corners but will also result in a reduction of straight line speed. Rear wing angle should be adjusted in conjunction with front 
and rear ride heights, specifically the difference between front and rear ride heights known as ‘rake’. To retain the same overall 
aerodynamic balance it is necessary to increase the rake of the car when increasing the rear wing angle.
FRONT DOWNFORCE
This value displays the proportion of downforce acting at the front axle for the given wing and ride height combination set within 
the calculator parameters. This value is an instantaneous representation of your aero balance at this exact set of parameters and 
it can be helpful to pick multiple points around a corner or section of track to understand how the aerodynamic balance is moving 
in differing situations such as braking, steady state cornering and accelerating at corner exit. A higher forwards percentage will 
result in more oversteer in mid to high speed corners.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | TIRES & AERO

--- PAGE 17 ---

17
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
Chassis
FRONT
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher 
values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, increasing roll stiffness in the front suspension and producing 
the same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the diameter of the sway bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the 
roll stiffness of the front suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing the diameter of the sway bar. These blade 
adjustments can be thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between sway bar diameter settings. 3 ARB blade options are available 
ranging from soft to hard. 
ARB OUTER DIAMETER 
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size influences the stiffness of the front suspension in roll, such as when navigating a corner. Increasing the 
ARB size will increase the roll stiffness of the front suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical understeer. 
This can also, in some cases, lead to a more responsive steering feel from the driver. Conversely, reducing the ARB size will soften 
the suspension in roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical understeer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from 
the steering, but grip across the front axle will increase. Along with this, the effects of softening or stiffening the ARB in relation to 
aerodynamics should also be considered, smaller and hence softer ARB’s will result in more body roll which will decrease control 
of the aero platform in high speed corners and potentially lead to a loss in aero efficiency. 2 configurations of ARB diameter are 
available; 35 mm (softest) and 45 mm (stiffest).
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 18 ---

18
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
TOE-IN
Toe is the angle of the wheel, when viewed from above, relative to the centerline of the chassis. Toe-in is when the front of the 
wheel is closer to the centerline than the rear of the wheel, and Toe-out is the opposite. On the front end, adding toe-out will 
increase slip in the inside tire and decrease straight-line stability while adding toe-in will reduce the slip and increase straight- 
line stability.
FRONT MASTER CYLINDER
The Front Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the line pressure to the front brake calipers. A larger master 
cylinder will reduce the line pressure to the front brakes, this will shift the brake bias rearwards and increase the pedal effort 
required to lock the front wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase brake line pressure to the front 
brakes, shifting brake bias forward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder options are available ranging 
from 15.9 mm / 0.626” (highest line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
REAR MASTER CYLINDER
The Rear Brake Master Cylinder size can be changed to alter the line pressure to the rear brake calipers. A larger master cylinder 
will reduce the line pressure to the rear brakes, this will shift the brake bias forwards and increase the pedal effort required to 
lock the rear wheels. A smaller master cylinder will do the opposite and increase brake line pressure to the rear brakes, shifting 
brake bias rearward and reducing required pedal effort. 7 Different master cylinder options are available ranging from 15.9 mm / 
0.626” (highest line pressure) to 23.8 mm / 0.937” (lowest line pressure).
BRAKE PADS
The vehicle’s braking performance can be altered via the Brake Pad Compound. The “Low” setting provides the least friction, 
reducing the effectiveness of the brakes, while “Medium” and “High” provide more friction and increase the effectiveness of the 
brakes while increasing the risk of a brake lockup.
FUEL LEVEL
The amount of fuel in the fuel tank. Tank capacity is 120 L (31.7 g). Adjustable in 1 L (0.26 g) increments.
CROSS WEIGHT
The percentage of total vehicle weight in the garage acting across the right front and left rear corners. 50.0% is generally optimal 
for non-oval tracks as this will produce symmetrical handling in both left and right hand corners providing all other chassis settings 
are symmetrical. Higher than 50% cross weight will result in more understeer in left hand corners and increased oversteer in 
right hand corners, cross weight can be adjusted by making changes to the spring perch offsets at each corner of the car. 
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 19 ---

19
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
IN-CAR DIALS
DISPLAY PAGE
Changes the currently selected digital dash page. 3 options are available, Race 1, Race 2 and Qual as previously described in the 
dash configuration section of this manual.
BRAKE PRESSURE BIAS
Brake Bias is the percentage of braking force that is being sent to the front brakes. Values above 50% result in greater pressure 
in the front brake line relative to the rear brake line which will shift the brake balance forwards increasing the tendency to lock 
up the front tyres but potentially increasing overall stability in braking zones. This should be tuned for both driver preference and 
track conditions to get the optimum braking performance for a given situation. It is important to note that differing combinations 
of master cylinder size will necessitate differing brake pressure bias values, this is because increasing or reducing the split in 
master cylinder size difference between front and rear axles will produce an inherent forward or rearward bias in brake line 
pressure. 
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING (TCC)
The position of this traction control switch determines how aggressively the ecu cuts engine torque in reaction to rear wheel spin. 
12 positions are available. Settings 1-11 range from least intervention/sensitivity (position 1) through to highest intervention/
sensitivity (position 11). Position 0 disables the traction control completely. Position 5 is the recommended baseline setting. 
More intervention will result in less wheelspin and less rear tire wear but can reduce overall performance if the traction control is 
cutting engine torque too aggressively and stunting corner exit acceleration. 
TRACTION CONTROL SETTING (TCR)
The position of this traction control switch determines the slip sensitivity of the traction control (how much slip is allowable before 
torque cut is implemented) rather than the overall intervention strength. Settings 0-11 range from least slip sensitivity (position 
0) to most slip sensitivity (position 11). Position 0 does NOT disable the traction control as it does with the TCC setting. Position 5 
is the recommended baseline setting. 
THROTTLE MAP SETTING
Throttle map setting refers to how changes in the drivers pedal position result in changes in provided engine torque. 5 positions 
exist, position 4 results in a linear torque map relative to throttle position (e.g. 10% throttle position results in 10% engine torque, 
50% throttle position results in 50% engine torque and so on.). Position 0 emulates a non-linear S-shaped map similar to a cable 
throttle which results in reduced fidelity in the middle portion of the throttle range. Positions 1-3 are hybrids of the position 0 and 
4 throttle mapping styles.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 20 ---

20
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
ABS SETTING
The current ABS map the car is running. 12 positions are available but only 10 maps exist. Position 1 has the least intervention/
support while position 10 has the most support. Position 10 is the same as position 11 and position 0 disables the ABS 
completely. Position 4 is the recommended baseline setting. More intervention reduces the possibility of and the duration of 
lockups during braking but can result in longer braking distances if the system is set overly aggressive for the amount of available 
grip. 
ENGINE MAP SETTING
The fuel map on which the car is currently running. Position 4 is the base map and produces maximum power but the most fuel 
usage. Positions 3 through 2 are for fuel saving under green flag conditions and will reduce engine power output correspondingly. 
The lower the number the better the fuel economy but the lower the power output. Positions 1 and 0 are for saving fuel under 
safety car conditions and are not recommended for normal usage. 
FRONT CORNERS
CORNER WEIGHT
The weight underneath each tire under static conditions in the garage. Correct weight arrangement around the car is crucial for 
optimizing a car for a given track and conditions. Individual wheel weight adjustments and crossweight adjustments are made via 
the spring perch offset adjustments at each corner.
FRONT RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the chassis. Since these values are measured to a specific reference point on the 
car, these values may not necessarily reflect the vehicle’s ground clearance, but instead provide a reliable value for the height of 
the car off of the race track at static values. Adjusting Ride Heights is key for optimum performance, as they can directly influence 
the vehicle’s aerodynamic performance as well as mechanical grip. Increasing front ride height will decrease front downforce 
as well as decrease overall downforce, but will allow for more weight transfer across the front axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase front and overall downforce, but reduce the weight transfer across the front axle. Minimum legal 
front ride height is 50.0 mm.
SPRING PERCH OFFSET
Used to adjust the ride height at this corner of the car by changing the installed position of the spring. Increasing the spring perch 
offset will result in lowering this corner of the car while reducing the spring perch offset will raise this corner of the car. These 
changes should be kept symmetrical across the axle (left to right) to ensure the same corner ride heights and no change in cross 
weight. The spring perch offsets can also be used in diagonal pairs (LF to RR and RF to LR) to change the static cross weight in 
the car. 
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 21 ---

21
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
SPRING SELECTED/SPRING RATE
This setting determines the installed corner spring stiffness. Stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between 
high and low load cases and will produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform control; however, they 
will also result in increased tire load variation which will manifest as a loss in mechanical grip. Typically the drawbacks of stiffer 
springs will become more pronounced on rougher tracks and softer springs in these situations will result in increased overall 
performance. Corner spring changes will influence both roll and pitch control of the platform and ARB changes should be 
considered when altering corner spring stiffnesses in order to retain the same front to rear roll stiffness and overall balance. 
When reducing corner spring stiffness the ARB stiffness (either via blade or diameter depending on the size of the corner spring 
change) should be increased to retain the same roll stiffness as previously. 11 options for spring rate are available ranging from 
200 N/mm (1371 lbs/in) to 400 N/mm (2286 lbs/in) in 20 N/mm (114 lbs/in) steps. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted 
to return the car to the prior static ride heights after any spring rate change.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to compresion (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering 
forces. In this case -24 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) while 0 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car 
during transient movements such as braking and direction change with increased damping usually providing an increase in turn-in 
response but a reduction in overall grip in the context of front dampers.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less 
high speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 0 is maximum 
damping while -24 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
as a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. Higher rebound values can better control aerodynamic attitude but can result in the wheel being unloaded when the 
suspension can’t expand enough to maintain proper contact with the track. When tuning for handling, higher front low speed 
rebound can increase on-throttle mechanical understeer (but reduce nose lift) while lower values will maintain front end grip 
longer, helping to reduce understeer, but will allow more splitter lift. Excessive front rebound can lead to unwanted oscillations due 
to the wheel bouncing off of the track surface instead of staying in contact. 0 is maximum damping (most resistant to extension) 
while -24 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING:
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. 0 is maximum damping while -24 is minimum damping.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 22 ---

22
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
CAMBER
Camber is the vertical angle of the wheel relative to the center of the chassis. Negative camber is when the top of the wheel is 
closer to the chassis centerline than the bottom of the wheel, positive camber is when the top of the tire is farther out than the 
bottom. Due to suspension geometry and corner loads, negative camber is desired on all four wheels. Higher negative camber 
values will increase the cornering force generated by the tire, but will reduce the amount of longitudinal grip the tire will have 
under braking. Excessive camber values can produce very high cornering forces but will also significantly reduce tire life, so it is 
important to find a balance between life and performance. Increasing front camber values will typically result in increased front 
axle grip during mid to high speed cornering but will result in a loss of braking performance and necessitate a rearward shift in 
brake bias to compensate. 
CASTER
Caster is the vertical angle of the steering axis relative to the side view of the chassis. Positive caster angle is where the steering 
axis is leaned rearwards from this viewpoint, the more caster the larger the total trail of the contact patch behind the steering 
axis. More caster angle will result in the mechanical trail being a larger proportion of the felt steering weight relative to the tires 
pneumatic trail. This will result in a heavier overall steering feel but a possible loss in felt feedback from the tire. Increasing caster 
angle will also have secondary effects such as an increase in dynamic camber when turning the wheel through large steering 
angles which can be beneficial in chicances or hairpins. As well as this the more caster angle the greater the jacking effect during 
cornering which will result in lifting the inside front wheel while lowering the outside front wheel. This jacking effect will also result 
in the unloading and potentially lifting of the inside rear wheel which can aid in rotation around tight corners. 
REAR CORNERS
REAR RIDE HEIGHT
Distance from ground to a reference point on the rear of the chassis. Increasing rear ride height will decrease rear downforce 
as well as increase overall downforce and will allow for more weight transfer across the rear axle when cornering. Conversely, 
reducing ride height will increase rear downforce percentage but reduce overall downforce while reducing the weight transfer 
across the rear axle. Rear ride height is a critical tuning component for both mechanical and aerodynamic balance considerations 
and static rear ride heights should be considered and matched to the chosen rear corner springs for optimal performance. 
Minimum legal rear ride height is 50.0 mm while maximum legal rear ride height is 87.5 mm. 
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 23 ---

23
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
SPRING SELECTED/SPRING RATE
Similar to at the front axle, stiffer springs will result in a smaller variance in ride height between high and low load cases and will 
produce superior aerodynamic performance through improved platform control at the expense of mechanical grip. This can be 
particularly prominent when exiting slow speed corners with aggressive throttle application. Stiffer springs will tend to react 
poorly during these instances especially so on rough tracks which will result in significant traction loss. Spring stiffness should 
be matched to the needs of the racetrack and set such that the handling balance is consistent between high and low speed 
cornering. As an example case, a car which suffers from high speed understeer but low speed oversteer could benefit from an 
increase in rear spring stiffness. This will allow for a lower static rear height which will reduce rear weight transfer during slow 
speed cornering while maintaining or even increasing the rear ride height in high speed cornering to shift the aerodynamic balance 
forwards and reduce understeer.11 options for spring rate are available ranging from 200 N/mm (1371 lbs/in) to 400 N/mm 
(2286 lbs/in) in 20 N/mm (114 lbs/in) steps. Spring perch offsets must be adjusted to return the car to the prior static ride 
heights after any spring rate change.
LS COMP DAMPING
Low speed compression affects how resistant the shock is to compresion (reduction in length) when the shock is moving at 
relatively low speeds, usually in chassis movements as a result of driver input (steering, braking, & throttle) and cornering 
forces. In this case -24 is minimum damping (least resistance to compression) while 0 is maximum damping (most resistance to 
compression). Increasing the low speed compression damping will result in a faster transfer of weight to this corner of the car 
during transient movements such as braking and direction change with increased damping usually increasing the cars tendency to 
understeer on throttle application.
HS COMP DAMPING
High speed compression affects the shock’s behavior in high speed travel, usually attributed to curb strikes and bumps in the 
track’s surface. Higher compression values will cause the suspension to be stiffer in these situations, while lower values will allow 
the suspension to absorb these bumps better but may hurt the aerodynamic platform around the track. At smoother tracks more 
high speed compression damping will typically increase performance while at rougher tracks or ones with aggressive kerbs less 
high speed compression damping can result in an increase in mechanical grip at the expense of platform control. 0 is maximum 
damping while -24 is minimum damping.
LS RBD DAMPING
Low speed rebound damping controls the stiffness of the shock while extending at lower speeds, typically during body movement 
as a result of driver inputs. Higher rebound values will resist expansion of the shock, lower values will allow the shock to extend 
faster. As at the front, high rebound stiffness will result in improved platform control for aerodynamic performance and overall 
chassis response but it is important to avoid situations where the shock is too slow in rebounding as this can result in the tire 
losing complete contact with the track surface. Provided this is avoided,, an increase in rebound stiffness can help to ‘slow down’ 
the change in pitch of the car as the brakes are applied, increasing braking stability and off-throttle mechanical understeer. 0 is 
maximum damping (most resistant to extension) while -24 is minimum damping (least resistance to extension).
HS RBD DAMPING:
High-speed rebound adjusts the shock in extension over bumps and curb strikes. Higher values will reduce how quickly the shock 
will expand, while lower values will allow the shock to extend more easily. Despite not having as much of an effect on handling 
in result to driver inputs, High-speed rebound can produce similar results in terms of aerodynamic control and uncontrolled 
oscillations if set improperly. 0 is maximum damping while -24 is minimum damping.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 24 ---

24
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
CAMBER
As at the front of the car it is desirable to run significant amounts of negative camber in order to increase the lateral grip 
capability; however, it is typical to run slightly reduced rear camber relative to the front. This is primarily for two reasons, firstly, the 
rear tires are 25 mm (~1”) wider compared to the fronts and secondly the rear tires must also perform the duty of driving the 
car forwards where benefits of camber to lateral grip become a tradeoff against reduced longitudinal (traction) performance. 
TOE-IN
At the rear of the car it is typical to run toe-in. Increases in toe-in will result in improved straight line stability and a reduction 
in response during direction changes. Large values of toe-in should be avoided if possible as this will increase rolling drag and 
reduce straight line speeds. When making rear toe changes remember that the values are for each individual wheel as opposed 
to paired as at the front. This means that individual values on the rear wheels are twice as powerful as the combined adjustment 
at the front of the car when the rear toes are summed together. Generally, it is advised to keep the left and right toe values equal 
to prevent crabbing or asymmetric handling behaviour; however, heavily asymmetric tracks such as Lime Rock Park may see a 
benefit in performance from running asymmetric configurations of rear toe and other setup parameters. 
REAR
ARB BLADES
The configuration of the Anti-Roll Bar arms, or “blades”, can be changed to alter the overall stiffness of the ARB assembly. Higher 
values transfer more force through the arms to the ARB itself, increasing roll stiffness in the rear suspension and producing 
the same effects, albeit on a smaller scale, as increasing the diameter of the sway bar. Conversely, lower values reduce the 
roll stiffness of the rear suspension and produce the same effects as decreasing the diameter of the sway bar. These blade 
adjustments can be thought of as fine-tuning adjustments between sway bar diameter settings. 3 ARB blade options are available 
ranging from soft to hard. 
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS

--- PAGE 25 ---

25
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | USER MANUAL
ARB OUTER DIAMETER 
The ARB (Anti-Roll Bar) size influences the stiffness of the rear suspension in roll, such as when navigating a corner. Increasing the 
ARB size will increase the roll stiffness of the rear suspension, resulting in less body roll but increasing mechanical oversteer. This 
can also cause the car to “take a set” more quickly at initial turn-in. Conversely, reducing the ARB size will soften the suspension in 
roll, increasing body roll but decreasing mechanical oversteer. This can result in a less-responsive feel from the rear especially in 
transient movements, but grip across the rear axle will increase. 2 configurations of ARB diameter are available; 35 mm (softest) 
and 45 mm (stiffest). 
DIFF PRELOAD
Diff preload is a static amount of locking force present within the differential and remains constant during both acceleration and 
deceleration. Increasing diff preload will increase locking on both sides of the differential which will result in more understeer when 
off throttle and more snap oversteer with aggressive throttle application. Increasing the diff preload will also smooth the transition 
between on and off throttle behaviour as the differential locking force will never reach zero which can be helpful in reducing lift-off 
oversteer and increasing driver confidence. Typically diff preload should be increased when there is noticeable loss in slow corner 
exit drive and/or over-rotation during transition between the throttle and brake in low to mid speed corners.
PORSCHE 911 GT3 R | ADVANCED SETUP OPTIONS | CHASSIS